
Blue 

I only had three dreams in my life I remember, and those none too
clearly. I dreamed I went hunting with my father, and it was the only
dream I ever dreamed in color. I don’t remember anything about it,
except the colors of the leaves and trees where we were hunting, and, if
you made me swear to it, I couldn’t in all honesty say I was sure we
were hunting, or that my father was with me. I just remember the colors
in the woods. 
-1 
I actually dreamed another dream in color, but only one
color – blue. It was in the yard of our house, and it switched to my
uncle’s cottage in Sunset Bay. There were flying saucers flying around
the yard/bay, and they were blue, and they were very compelling. 
-1
 I remember another dream about an
attic in a house, which I now think might be my mother’s parents’ house,
and I confuse that with another dream about a huge house with many
hidden and mysterious rooms and stairways, but it’s terribly vague, and
not in color. The emotion is there, though, and it’s an emotion of
strangeness and discovery, a tingling emotion, as are the other two
dreams I remember. 
-1 
Walter Mosley’s Blue Light made me think of these
dreams. He’s a far better writer than I am, and his book starts with
rays of blue lights on a much more cosmic scale than my dreams – rays of
blue light from Neptune crashing through the sun to earth – awakening
questions in frogs and murder in young men. I still have no idea what
his blue lights might be, but I know that I know the blue lights from my
childhood dreams. I know the blue lights, and I can still feel them. 
-1
When I was a teenager I made a device that emitted blue light. It was
like the cardboard tube from a roll of paper towels, with a blue light
bulb, like an old fashioned Christmas tree light – a Mazda – in it. I
connected it to a cardboard box with a few resistors and capacitors
wired in no particular way. I knew it had no effect on anything, but I
called it a “synapsifier”, a fictitious device that worked on the
synapses of the human brain. I check the frontispiece of Walter Mosley’s
book, and find the copyright is 1998. My synapsifier filled my attic
room with blue light over fifty years earlier – about the time of
Blackboard Jungle, plus or minus... So I had the blue light thing early,
but I didn’t use it.
-1