NIELS BOHR LIBRARY & ARCHIVES / TRANSCRIPT
ONE PHYSICS ELLIPSE, COLLEGE PARK, MD 20740 • (301)-209-3177 •
NBL@AIP.ORG
Richard Feynman - Session I
March 4, 1966
Interviewed by: Charles Weiner
Location: Altadena, California
Transcript version date: December 18, 2024
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1063/nbla.gkbb.awjw
1
Abstract:
Interview covers the development of several branches of theoretical
physics from the
1930s through the 1960s; the most extensive discussions deal with topics
in quantum
electrodynamics, nuclear physics as it relates to fission technology,
meson field theory,
superfluidity and other properties of liquid helium, beta decay and the
Universal Fermi
Interaction, with particular emphasis on Feynman's work in the
reformulation of
quantum electrodynamic field equations. Early life in Brooklyn, New
York; high school;
undergraduate studies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology; learning
the theory of
relativity and quantum mechanics on his own. To Princeton University
(John A.
Wheeler), 1939; serious preoccupation with problem of self-energy of
electron and other
problems of quantum field theory; work on uranium isotope separation;
Ph.D., 1942.
Atomic bomb project, Los Alamos (Hans Bethe, Niels Bohr, Enrico Fermi);
test
explosion at Alamagordo. After World War II teaches mathematical physics
at Cornell
University; fundamental ideas in quantum electrodynamics crystalize;
publishes "A
Space-Time View," 1948; Shelter Island Conference (Lamb shift); Poconos
Conferences;
relations with Julian Schwinger and Shin'ichiro Tomonaga; nature and
quality of
scientific education in Latin America; industry and science policies. To
California
Institute of Technology, 1951; problems associated with the nature of
superfluid helium;
work on the Lamb shift (Bethe, Michel Baranger); work on the law of beta
decay and
violation of parity (Murray Gell-Mann); biological studies; philosophy
of scientific
discovery; Geneva Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy;
masers (Robert
Hellwarth, Frank Lee Vernon, Jr.), 1957; Solvay Conference, 1961.
Appraisal of current
state of quantum electrodynamics; opinion of the National Academy of
Science; Nobel
Prize, 1965.
2
Usage Information and Disclaimer:
This transcript, or substantial portions thereof, may not be
redistributed by any means
except with the written permission of the American Institute of Physics.
AIP oral history transcripts are based on audio recordings, and the
interviewer and
interviewee have generally had the opportunity to review and edit a
transcript, such that
it may depart in places from the original conversation. If you have
questions about the
interview, or you wish to consult additional materials we may have that
are relevant to it,
please contact us at nbl@aip.org for further information.
Please bear in mind that this oral history was not intended as a
literary product and
therefore may not read as clearly as a more fully edited source. Also,
memories are not
fully reliable guides to past events. Statements made within the
interview represent a
subjective appreciation of events as perceived at the time of the
interview, and factual
statements should be corroborated by other sources whenever possible or
be clearly
cited as a recollection.
3
Part I: The Early Years
Weiner:
This is a tape-recorded interview with Professor Richard Feynman, in his
home in
Altadena, California, on March 4, 1966. Charles Weiner will occasionally
interrupt with
questions. Let’s start at the beginning.
Feynman:
You start by interrupting me with a question.
Weiner:
That’s right. It saves interruption later. Let’s talk about the earliest
recollections you have
of your family, your neighborhood and your home.
Feynman:
Nothing scientific, just a simple —? I don’t know what to say. That’s a
hard one. I have
lots of recollections, little bits and pieces.
Weiner:
Let me ask where you lived in Far Rockaway, was this —?
Feynman:
I was born somewhere in New York, but I don’t remember anything except
Far
Rockaway, and then we went for some time, I remember, to a house in a
place called
Baldwin, on Long Island, where I think we lived a year or a half a year
or a summer. And
then, sometime after Far Rockaway, we went to live in Cedarhurst, but
then by that time
I was nine or eleven. Then we came back to Far Rockaway again. That
gives an outline
of where things were.
Weiner:
When you have recollections of Far Rockaway, what sort of a neighborhood
was it?
Feynman:
4
There were these two periods, the first and the second. The first time I
can’t remember
very well at all. I remember moving to the house. We walked along. It
was a big house.
We lived there with my cousins, a cousin family, I mean — my mother’s
sisters. The two
families lived together in a big, rather large house, with a big garden.
We had a couple, a
man and a woman, who took care of it. I can’t remember which period
exactly. But the
first time — my earliest recollection is of moving to that house from
somewhere
unknown, where my cousin was in a baby carriage, so I couldn’t have been
more than
five. Therefore it was the first time, and we were moving, so I remember
it. The road,
the sidewalk — there was nothing. It was mud, it was dirt.
Weiner:
Was this near the beach?
Feynman:
About two miles from the beach. We used to go to the beach very often.
Weiner:
What was your father’s occupation?
Feynman:
My father had different jobs and different occupations. The earliest —
he apparently
wasn’t too successful, I suppose. I don’t know. I mean in the beginning.
The ones I
remember are, for a while he sold “Whiz,” which was some kind of stuff
for
automobiles, accessories. We had the garage full of Whiz of different
kinds — like
Simonize. Then he was in the cleaning business. He had a cleaning chain
called Sanis
Cleaners, New York, which he had with a man whose name was Brockman.
(I’m
beginning to remember that.) But the two of them had been partners
earlier in a real
estate business that didn’t work out, until a third man, Paul, I think
his name was, was
brought in who was clever enough to first oust my father and then his
partner. So he got
put out of his tree. And then he went into the uniform business.
Weiner:
On the cleaning business, you mean this was dry cleaning stores?
Feynman:
Dry cleaning stores, yes. He told me, but I don’t remember that he was
the first dollar
cleaners. But I don’t know.
5
Weiner:
This would put it, by the way, in the twenties some time.
Feynman:
Probably. I can’t swear by the dates. I’m rather confused, after that he
worked for a
uniform company, as a sales manager of a uniform outfit called Wender
and Goldstein,
which was a big uniform company. And there I would say he was
successful, because he
was in the uniform business from then on. I remember most of the time
his being in that
business. But now that you ask me, I remember all these other
businesses.
Weiner:
What was his educational background, do you recall?
Feynman:
I don’t know it too well. I understand that he went to high school all
right. He lived in
Patchogue. He apparently had been taught by his father and also by some
special tutors
from time to time that his father got for him. He presumably went
through regular high
school. He went to a kind of medical school, the Homeopathic Institute
or something.
It’s a strange kind of medicine. But as far as I know the story, which I
don’t know very
well, he didn’t have much money so he lived in a house where people were
very poor,
and he got involved trying to help them, and upset. So for one reason or
another he
stopped his medical school education.
Weiner:
I see. Where was he born, do you recall?
Feynman:
Probably in Patchogue. No — he was born in Minsk. At five he came over
to the United
States with his father and mother. Then he lived in a town, Patchogue,
in Long Island.
It’s out on Long Island.
Weiner:
I know where that is, it’s near Brookhaven.
Feynman:
6
Yes.
Weiner:
And your mother?
Feynman:
My mother comes from a family which was originally German, but which
have been here
— her parents came at a young age. Her father was a very successful
business in that
business. In fact, he was called the “Father of the trimmed hat
business.”
Weiner:
What was her maiden name?
Feynman:
Phillips. Her father’s name Henry Phillips, and her name was Lucille.
Weiner:
And what was your father’s first name?
Feynman:
Melville.
Weiner:
So she was born in this country, and she lived…?
Feynman:
Yes. She had a fine education. She was a relatively successful man’s
daughter. She went
to the Ethical Culture School, which apparently had considerable
influence on her.
Weiner:
In New York? Manhattan?
Feynman:
7
Yes. That’s right.
Weiner:
And did she go to college?
Feynman:
No. That’s as far as she went. No, she didn’t go to college.
Weiner:
So if I interpreted correctly what you said about your father, he
didn’t?
Feynman:
I don’t think he ever successfully went to college. However, he did
teach himself a great
deal. He read a lot and he studied a lot, because, as I know now, he
understood a great
deal about science, by teaching himself or by learning from his father
or from other
people. He was rational. He liked the rational mind, and liked those
things which could
be understood by thinking.
Weiner:
When you say he was interested in science, or knew about it, in what way
was this
expressed?
Feynman:
As far as I’m concerned? Well, these two stories are rumors, as far as
I’m concerned, but
the story is that before I was born he told my mother: “If it’s a boy,
he’ll be a scientist.”
But you’ll have to talk to my mother to verify this. I don’t know if I
got the story right.
Weiner:
Is your mother alive?
Feynman:
Yes. She lives in Pasadena. No, my father’s dead.
Weiner:
8
When did he die?
Feynman:
1948, probably — l948, probably — 1948, 1947, 1949, something like that.
Weiner:
After that your mother moved to Pasadena?
Feynman:
Quite a bit after that. She lived in New York a while. She’s only been
here about seven,
eight years. Anyway, he said that to my mother, before I was born. And
he played a lot
with me. I mean, we had a very good relationship. We fooled around a
lot. He’d tell me
about things all the time. And the other rumor, which I can’t exactly
remember, is that
when I was very small, he went to a company that made bathroom tiles and
got a lot of
old extra tiles, you know, and then he would stand them up on my high
chair, on end, in
a long row — as you do with dominos. Then when we’d get all ready, I
would be
allowed to push it at the end, and the whole pile would go over. We’d
play this game.
But you’d have to verify it with my mother, of course, because I don’t
remember exactly.
But he would then take a game. He’d say, “Now we put a white one, now a
blue one,
now a white one, now a blue one.” Sometimes I’d want to put two blue
ones together
and he’d say, “No, no, must be a white one now.” My mothered tell me
that she would
say, “Now let the boy put a blue one.” He’d say, “No, we have to get him
to understand
patterns.” This was the only thing I could do at this age, to think
about patterns and
recognize those things as being interesting. After a short time with
this game, I could do
extremely elaborate patterns. I mean, once I paid attention — two blues,
a white, a
brown, two whites, to two blues, a white — and so on. So he started in
as early as he
could with what he said was a kind of mathematics, sort of the shadow of
mathematics.
He was always playing games and telling me things, which he realized
were scientific,
bearing relation to science.
Weiner:
This pattern recognition training, you say, was in your high chair, so
this was very young?
Feynman:
Very young, so it’s not in my memory. It’s been told to me. But then
there was
something else that I do remember, because when I got into kindergarten,
which is of
course much later, six years old, they had a thing in those days which
was weaving, so
called. They had a kind of colored paper, square paper, with about
quarter inch slots
made parallel, a quarter inch wide, and then quarter inch strips of
paper. See, one was the
9
woof, and the other was — whatever it is, warp. You’re supposed to weave
it and made
designs. You see? That was regular and interesting. Apparently that’s
extremely difficult
for a child, and I was especially commented on. The teacher was very
excited and
surprised. I had no difficulty. I made elaborate patterns correctly by
doing this thing,
without any difficulty, whereas it was so difficult for most other
children that they don’t
do that in kindergarten any more. So apparently I had learned something
already, back
then.
Weiner:
Did you do any drawing in this period? Do you remember any?
Feynman:
No, I was no good at drawing, ever. I don’t think I was. My father was
fairly good at it,
and he would try to show me some things with drawing, much later. I
don’t know the
dates, but I remember him explaining to me how to make letters by dark
on the one side
— the light comes from one side. You know, like sign letters, or they
looked like the
gold letters that they used to glue up against the butcher stores. If
you just imagined that
there was a strip of letter there, and just colored it on one side, from
the way the light
would have caught it, it gives that effect. And so on. He’d show me
tricks in drawing, but
I wasn’t ever very adept at drawing. I didn’t pick that up.
Weiner:
Let me ask at this point whether there were any brothers or sisters in
the family?
Feynman:
There was a sister. There was a brother that came after approximately
three years. Or
maybe I was five, four, six, three, I don’t remember. But that brother
died, after a
relatively short time, like a month or so. I can still remember that, so
I can’t have been
too young, because I can remember especially that the brother had a
finger bleeding all
the time. That’s what happened — it was some kind of disease that didn’t
heal. And also,
asking the nurse how they knew whether it was a boy or a girl, and being
taught: it’s by
the shape of the ear — and thinking that that’s rather strange. There’s
so much
difference in the world between men and women that they should bother to
make any
difference, a boy from a girl, with just the shape of the ear! It didn’t
sound like a sensible
thing. Now, I remember that I had another, a sister, when I was nine
years old, so it’s
possible that I’m remembering my question at the age of nine or ten, and
not at the age
of the other child, because it sounds incredible to me now that I would
have had such a
deep thought about society at the earlier age. I don’t know. I can’t
tell you what age I
was, but I remember that, because it was an interesting answer. I
couldn’t understand it
10
really. They make such a fuss — everybody dresses differently; they go
to so much
trouble, their hair different — just because the ear shape is different?
What sort of an
answer is that?
Weiner:
There was a nine year difference, then, between you and your sister.
Feynman:
Yes, then my sister came later, when I was nine years old.
Weiner:
I see. Any other brothers or sisters?
Feynman:
No. No. But we lived in this house where there were cousins, and we
lived together, so it
was very much as if it was brothers and sisters.
Weiner:
How many children in the cousins’ family?
Feynman:
There was one three years younger than I, a girl, and a boy three years
older than I. We
played together.
Weiner:
How long did this go on, living with the cousins?
Feynman:
Well, I don’t know. Did I live with the cousins before? Yes. First there
was a period
when we lived together in this house when I was young, for a few years.
Then when I
was maybe ten, we went to this town of Cedarhurst, where we lived
separately for a
while, till I was probably eleven. Maybe we were there two years or
possibly three. Then
we went back to Far Rockaway again, and again lived with the same
cousins, and that
was for a rather long period.
11
Weiner:
Did you remain in that same house during this period?
Feynman:
I can’t tell you. I don’t think so. I don’t know.
Weiner:
Do you know the relationship with the cousins? Were they first cousins?
Feynman:
Yes, first cousins, the children of my mother’s sister.
Weiner:
I see. Do you remember what the father of that family did for a living?
Feynman:
He had a man. What did he do for a living at that time, the father? I
don’t know. He
worked in a shirt business for a while. My knowledge now is that the
situation in the
family was that my mother’s sister was a very superior woman, full of
intellect, liked
plays and reading, and that she married a man whom she thought was of
her intellectual
height, you know, and so on. But he was a rather dullish, uninteresting,
not very able
man. So rather than his developing for her a fine home, with the
finances and so on, they
had troubles, and he had always relatively mundane jobs in shirt
factories, or maybe as
head of shipping in a shirt business or something of this kind. So there
was a certain
problem there. I think both of the mother’s married — didn’t have too
good financial
luck. The husbands weren’t as successful businessmen as the father had
been.
Weiner:
That perhaps explains the family set-up.
Feynman:
It does explain why they lived together, definitely. You see, the house
was left by the
father of the two girls, my mother and my aunt, as part of his estate.
Oh, in the first
period, he lived there, and so did the mother of the girls. My
grandfather and
grandmother lived there. My grandfather used to sit me on his lap and
give me half a
dollar every once in a while. I remember now. And then he died. Then the
grandmother
12
was still there, and she was ill always. She’d lie always on a couch,
around, until she died.
So that was the first period in that house. Now I remember.
Weiner:
I see. Then you’re saying that the grandparents and the two daughters,
with their
families, at one period lived there together.
Feynman:
That’s right.
Weiner:
It must have been a big house.
Feynman:
It was a very big house. Yes. And there were maid’s rooms upstairs and
so on.
Weiner:
Were there maids?
Feynman:
Yes, there were maids, in the kitchen. And then later on, when — in the
later period
there was a couple who lived there, who took care of the house, when I
was nine or ten.
The second period. Let’s give these things two names, the first and
second period,
because there was an interval in between.
Weiner:
There were four children in the house, then.
Feynman:
Yes. Possibly more. Possibly. My memory is not good. There were other
cousins, which
possibly lived there part of the time. Because I remember them as fairly
close for some
interval, but I don’t know. That would be earlier. The later period was
definitely just the
two families.
Weiner:
13
What about books around the house? Your father had these interests. Did
he have
books at home?
Feynman:
There were books. My father had books. He didn’t have scientific books
in the
conventional sense. He would have books of the kind — not this book, I’m
making it
up, but something like DEVILS, DRUGS AND DOCTORS, or MEN, MEDICINE
and — something. You know this kind of thing. That level of books. In
the second
period, at the age of about eleven or twelve, something like that, I
found, up in the attic,
an algebra book that my mother or my aunt had had in school, and I
started to work
from that. So there were books. It was possible. Why was I interested in
algebra?
Weiner:
Yes, why did you use that book?
Feynman:
I don’t know, but see, I was interested in the mathematics and the
science earlier. I’ve
missed the — the timing has got shot now, because we’re talking about
books. But my
father, you see, interested me in patterns at the very beginning, and
then later in things,
like we would turn over stones and watch the ants carry the little white
babies down
deeper into the holes. We would look at worms. All the time playing —
when we’d go
for walks, we’d look at things all the time, and then he’d tell me about
things of every
kind. The stars, the bugs, geometry things, and so on. He was always
telling me
interesting things — the way birds fly, the way ocean waves work, or
something, you see,
the weather. I don’t know why, any more, but there was always talking
about the world,
from every angle. Not just mathematics or anything like that, but the
whole business he
was interested in, and he was always telling me things. So he therefore
developed
somehow, inside me, more or less naturally, an interest in anything
rational and scientific.
So I knew, by the time I was being put to bed at night (because I’d been
pretty good at
arithmetic by this time, you see, and I’d heard about algebra), I asked
him what was
algebra? He said that it had to do with doing problems. This I remember
exactly: “It’s a
way of doing problems that you can’t do in arithmetic.” I said, “Like
what?” He said,
“Like a house and a garage rent for $15.00. How much does the garage
rent for?” I said,
“But you can’t do that at all!” He left me with that answer. He didn’t
tell me what algebra
was. But that’s the kind of relation. So I knew that algebra was
something interesting,
and therefore, I was somewhat frustrated in discovering what it was. I’m
sure that it
would be perfectly natural, if I found a book marked algebra, to become
quite interested
in what the heck it is, you see. I don’t know what I did with that book.
I mean, I can’t
remember finding the book. I probably got it at too early an age. I
can’t remember what
I did with it.
14
Weiner:
Did you go on any trips during that second period?
Feynman:
No, we didn’t travel much. In the summer we would go to the beach.
Weiner:
That was, of course, nearby.
Feynman:
Yes. That’s right. We didn’t travel much. I think we weren’t too well
off. In fact, I know
at that period my father was making $5000 a year, because he let me take
the check to
the bank, and it was about $100 a week. So I used to take the check to
the bank.
Weiner:
This is the twenties? That second period puts you in the twenties?
Feynman:
The thirties, something. I was twelve or thirteen. 1931, 1932. It’s in
the thirties.
Weiner:
In the Depression period.
Feynman:
Yes. That’s right. He was in trouble. That’s why we probably moved back
there. There
was probably trouble between the two families, a little bit. I guess. I
don’t know. It’s
circumstantial. And then they moved back because of still higher
financial difficulties and
it was the only solution. I can’t tell you, but it sounds logical now. I
never felt poor. I
never felt poor. I never felt anything. In fact, I remember distinctly,
when I was going to
the bank — you see, it was very good. My father knew how to teach me. He
said, “You
take the check to the bank.” This way I knew how much money was what.
And I
remember thinking to myself that that’s a very nice amount that
everything was all right,
we lived fine, and that my ambition would be to earn that much money. So
I knew I
wanted about $5000. That’s all I needed. It’s interesting — I remember
these things, now
15
that you ask me to tell about it, I recall all these little dopey
things!
Weiner:
They all fit together. Did you ever get into Manhattan to do anything in
the city?
Feynman:
Yes. My father would often take me, for instance, to the museum. The
Museum of
Natural History was a great place. We would go look at the dinosaur
bones and all this
stuff, you know. It was great. See, I can remember — I remember my
father talking,
talking, and talking. When you go into the museum, for example, there
are great rocks
which have long cuts, grooves, in them, from the glacier. I remember,
the first time
there, when he stopped there and explained to me about the ice moving
and grinding. I
can hear his voice, practically. That’s the kind of thing he would do:
he would explain all
this stuff, you know — that this ice moves; it looks solid, but it
moves, with this
tremendous weight and all this height, gradually, year by year, an inch
every year,
grinding and pushing — and so on. He described vividly what was going
on. That’s the
kind of thing. Not just “This is glacier cracks,” you see — quite
different. I mean, the ice
had to be felt, as you saw the top of it. Then he would tell me, “How do
you think we
know that there were glaciers all over the world at a certain time?”
See, after we would
look at it, he would say things like that -– “How do you think anybody
knows that there
were glaciers in the past?” So I said maybe — I don’t know, I don’t
remember exactly.
But this is the kind of thing he would say when we were all finished,
and then either I
would be clever enough to say, “Well, that’s the way we…” or I would
say, “I don’t
know.” He’d point out, “Look at that. These rocks are found in New York.
And so there
must have been ice in New York.” He understood. A thing that was very
important
about my father was not the facts but the process, the meaning of
everything, how we
find out, what is the consequence of finding out such a rock—with a
vivid description of
the ice, which was probably not exactly right. Perhaps the speed was not
an inch a year
but ten feet a year. I never knew. He never knew. But he would describe
anyway, in a
vivid way, and then always with some kind of lesson about it like, “How
do you think we
ever find these things out?” And there, of course, was standing if front
of me, the
method. But that’s the kind of guy he was. So it’s not hard to
understand I’ve been
interested in science. It was very good.
Weiner:
Was this a sort of regular thing, or was it spontaneous?
Feynman:
No, it wasn’t regular. I don’t think it was regular, but it was fairly
often.
16
Weiner:
And you still think here we’re talking about the same period, about aged
12 or 13?
Feynman:
Yes.
Weiner:
Before high school?
Feynman:
Oh yes, definitely before high school. Definitely. Earlier, probably.
Probably quite early
— probably very early. Probably he took me to the museum when I was
quite small, and
then at other times. I know that my cousin — another cousin — not the
one we lived
with—lived in New York, and invited me to New York at one point when I
was a young
kid maybe twelve, I don’t know. She’s six years older. Something like
that. And she
invited me to New York. It’s a famous family joke, you know — she
thought she’d show
me New York and the buildings and everything else, and as soon as I got
there she said
to me, “What would you like to see?” “I want to go to the museum!” was
my answer.
And so she had a dull day, what she called a dull day, taking this young
squirt through
the museum. But that was what I thought New York was. The only thing
that was good
in New York. Because I’d always gone to the museum when I went to New
York, and I
loved the museum.
Weiner:
“New York is the Museum of Natural History surrounded by water.”
Feynman:
Exactly. Yes. Right. Right.
Weiner:
When you went, did you ever go with your sister? She was younger, of
course.
Feynman:
She was nine years younger, and she was too young.
17
Weiner:
That’s right. How about the cousins.
Feynman:
She may have come. No. No.
Weiner:
So it was just a father-son thing.
Feynman:
It was our family. The science didn’t spread to the other family, but it
did go into the
sister. The sister is now a Ph.D. in physics.
Weiner:
Your younger sister?
Feynman:
Yes.
Weiner:
Where did she did get her Ph.D.?
Feynman:
She got it at Syracuse University. She got her BS at Oberlin, Ohio. Now
she’s working
for Ames Research in — space, something.
Weiner:
Is she married?
Feynman:
Yes.
Weiner:
18
What is her name?
Feynman:
Joan Feynman — Joan Hirschberg.
Weiner:
That’s very interesting. Evidently your father’s influence spread.
Feynman:
She said that it was because she would overhear us talking, and then she
would ask me
things, and I would explain it to her. That’s what she says. It wasn’t
so direct in her case.
Weiner:
What about school in that period? How’d you do in school? Do you have
any
recollections of it? This is pre-high school?
Feynman:
I recollect that I was fairly good in school, that I was also a good
boy, except for some
minor traumatic experiences and difficulties. I was always very upset if
something went
bad, if I was bad about something. I always tried to be a good boy.
That’s discipline.
Also, I was fairly good in school, definitely above average, but in
arithmetic it was very
easy. It was too easy. For instance, when I was ten or eleven I was
called one day from
the class to a previous class that I’d been in, by a previous teacher,
to explain to the class
how to do subtraction. I had invented (they claim) a better way of doing
subtraction than
they were using, that she liked. She’d forgotten it in the meantime, and
I was called from
my class to explain it to them. Everybody says I invented, but I don’t
believe it. I believe
what happened was that I learned that method of subtraction in the Far
Rockaway
School, and that in the Cedarhurst School they used a different scheme
which was less
efficient. It corresponded to crossing numbers out and reducing them out
by one. I had
a way of carrying the little one that you had to subtract, much as you
carry in addition;
whereas they would reduce the upper number by one, I would increase the
lower
number by one, when you had to subtract. And probably I learned that in
the other
school. But at any rate, I was already known as some kind of a whiz at
arithmetic, in
grade school.
Weiner:
And did your grades reflect this?
19
Feynman:
I think so. Of course, in arithmetic they probably reflected it very
well. I think in
arithmetic there was no question. But in the other subjects, I was
pretty good but I didn’t
really like them too well. I probably was average or a little, you know,
above average —
80 percent or something. Satisfactory in everything else, but very good
in arithmetic. Not
extremely good in everything else, no.
Weiner:
Were your teachers in arithmetic women teachers?
Feynman:
Yes, usually. In the later part, when I got back to Far Rockaway and I
was [inaudible]
arithmetic and so on, I had taught myself enough algebra — I’m just
trying to remember,
I’ll never get the timing right or the order right — but back in the
school, probably near
the last grades, I had learned how to solve simultaneous equations,
linear equations, like
two equations with two unknowns, and I made up a problem with four
equations and
four unknowns. I made up a set of four equations, in A, B, C, and D, to
solve. But I
made them up — I know I did — I picked numbers for A, B, C, and D, and I
made up
equations with were right for those numbers, so I knew the answer. But
that wasn’t it —
I took these equations and then I went through a formal procedure for
solving them.
You eliminate A, or whatever I did, I don’t remember, but then you get
three equations,
three unknowns, and you get two equations, two equations, and you get
one equation,
one unknown, and there you are. Then I’d get one variable. But, in other
words, I made
up a problem and then wrote the whole formal solution, but I made up the
problem so
the answers would be integers, and not just arbitrary, and I gave it in
to the teacher of
arithmetic in the grammar school. She thought it was so impressive, but
she didn’t really
know much about it, (they don’t know much in grammar school) that she
took it to the
principal, who apparently did still remember a little algebra, who went
over it and said it
was correct, and signed her name and complimented me for doing that,
being able to do
that. I remember doing that. That’s just to give you some idea.
Weiner:
Why did you do it?
Feynman:
Probably, at that time, to show off. I mean, I don’t know, but
presumably to show off. I
don’t know exactly.
20
Weiner:
Was it a home?
Feynman:
Yes, of course.
Weiner:
Not part of a homework thing?
Feynman:
No, it had nothing to do with the school.
Weiner:
Did you show it to your father?
Feynman:
I don’t think so. I don’t know whether my father would have been able to
follow it. By
this time I had taught myself something, about mathematics. He knew the
ideas of
mathematics, but I don’t think he formally could do the things so well.
I’m not sure
whether he would have been able to do that, or whether I showed it to
him. I just
remember this. I also remember, near the end of school, when I was in
the last grade,
being curious about how you take square roots, and asking a teacher who
was not a
woman teacher, but a man — that’s why I remember this — how you take
square roots.
He was pretty good. He taught science also. He was not really good, but
—. He looked it
up in a book, how to take square roots. He’d forgotten. He knew,
numerically. Then he
showed us the rules. And he was always throwing the bull. He was the
biggest liar in the
world. So he starts out to show us this rule. For instance, he says, you
have 116, now you
take the 1, take the square root, then you cut off two numbers — and he
did it hesitantly
enough, because he didn’t know it very well. Then he told about doubling
what you got,
and dividing into that — oh yes, and then you have to add the squares
here, and all this
kind of crazy rules, if you know the rules. A friend of mine — I had a
friend, who asked
him, and he showed us, and it came out right. And we were sure that it
was a fake that he
had just fiddled around to make it work as he went along, because it was
so crazy. So we
went home and we fiddled to try to find out if it really worked. And
sure enough, it really
worked. We didn’t trust it, when he told us the way of doing it. By that
time I had a
friend, by the way, who was as interested in science as I was, and we
did much together.
That was about twelve. Second period. Then we did lots of stuff
together. We studied
21
together; we argued together, we did chemistry experiments.
Weiner:
Do you remember his name?
Feynman:
Bernard Walker.
Weiner:
What happened to him?
Feynman:
He got into business, so to speak — a sort of semi-engineering business,
and now is
completely business.
Weiner:
Did he follow through on the technical or scientific education?
Feynman:
No. I think it was family influences, the importance of money and
business, so that be
became more a salesman than an honest scientific man. A mixture. At
first he had
developed a process for metal-plating plastics, and done some research
to develop it.
Later, I got a job with him, from 1939, probably.
Weiner:
Metaplast Corporation?
Feynman:
Metaplast Corporation, right. I worked there. Let me tell you about that
later, perhaps.
But anyhow, that was his intermediate stage, when he was still partly
connected. Since
then he’s gone entirely into business.
Weiner:
Did he stay with you through high school?
22
Feynman:
No. No, he was not in high school with me. It was grammar school.
Weiner:
Do you have any other recollections of that period? Do you think of
anything else that
may be significant?
Feynman:
Quite a bit, yes. In the first place, I remember, in the period between
when I was in
Cedarhurst—this has to do with science, now; there’s lots of stuff, it’s
infinite — but
when I was in Cedarhurst, the first time I came there, I had to meet the
new boys. You
know, you move, and you have to get along with the new boys — you know.
I had a
thing that they had never seen, which I had discovered by accident. The
clothesline of
the day, if you light it and then blow it out, smolders red like the end
of a cigarette, and it
goes on and on. So I used to use it as a clock, to know when to come
home, by marking
it off in ink. And I carried this thing around. When I got to Cedarhurst
I still was doing
this particular dopey thing, and the kids saw this thing, and they said,
“Oh, that’s a great
idea.” And they all had them, which they used to burn each other, and
this kind of
shocked me and disturbed me. It was the beginning of the whole thing,
you know. But I
remember distinctly being upset by the fact that they didn’t use the
thing in a good way,
but they were using it, not the way I meant, see. Incidentally, I
discovered also about that
time that the device was not as good as I thought, because I put it on
my bicycle and
drove around, and because of the air blowing on it, it burned too fast.
So I discovered a
fault in the design of this clock! Anyway, at that period I was very
interested in science,
during the period when I was at Cedarhurst, which was nine, ten, eleven.
I really
developed a lot of science. I did lots of experiments. I remember
bottles of water with
oil would separate — dumb things, you know, just looking. Then later I
gradually began
to do experiments. I had chemistry sets. Also I acquired a friend whose
name was
Leonard Mortner at Cedarhurst, whom I’ve known for rest of life.
Accidents were such
that we were always together. He lives out here now and I see him once
in a while. He’s
an engineer. He taught me things that I didn’t know, and probably the
other way around.
He taught for the first time, really, about atoms. My fathered probably
told me a few
times but I didn’t remember. He explained to me about water — you can
keep breaking
it up and breaking it up and breaking it up, and at last, if you break
it at the last, to the
end — I said, “Why not?” He said, “Well, it turns out there are little
particles.” I
remember him telling me about atoms, so I learned. And then he knew
about chemicals
enough to know. You see, we had a chemistry set. There’d be a little box
full of what
might be calcium oxide. Then you’d see in the catalog — you get such a
box, costs 10
cents — he’d discover that calcium oxide is the same stuff that they use
in mortar for
buildings, you know, lime. So we would go in the night and sneak and get
a bottle, a
23
mayonnaise jug, full of that stuff, which was at least worth a few
dollars, you see. So I
had a chemistry set which had a lot of little boxes, and then big
bottles of calcium oxide,
borax, and other things which he had found out from his brother were
common objects.
(I’m just trying to remember things). I also was interested at that time
in electrical things.
I bought a pair of earphones from some man, to do some experiments. They
didn’t
work, the earphones, and so I took them apart, and saw the reams of
wire. You know, it
was a kind of child, not really — ruining sometimes, and fooling around
sometimes, and
sometimes making something. I remember other things, as long as we’re
talking about it.
I remember, at one point, I got in my mouth one of those chemicals from
the chemistry
set. And I was horrified. Might be poison, you know. Whereas my friend
Leonard said to
me, “Don’t worry. Probably tastes a little sour and salty, doesn’t it?”
I was amazed at his
brilliance, because that’s exactly how it did taste. It was sodium
hypo-something.
Hyposulfite. It was in fact partly acid and partly salt. He knew that
all salts taste salty, but
I didn’t know it. You see, I thought salt that you had on the table
tasted some way, and
that the other salts didn’t necessarily taste the same. But he knew
enough. Apparently he
knew quite a good deal.
Weiner:
Was he older than you or the same age?
Feynman:
He was not much older, if he was older.
Weiner:
But he wasn’t in the same grade in school?
Feynman:
No, there was one year’s difference between us.
Weiner:
So you knew him from the neighborhood rather than as a classmate?
Feynman:
Yes. Anyway, in that period I was acquiring a great deal of scientific
knowledge of a
childish kind. My father bought me a telescope, and I played with that,
made tricks with
lenses and images, and little fooling’s-around. Then there was an
experience in which
science came in, in a funny way. I was not good in athletics. This
always bothered me
24
when I was a kid. I felt like I was a sissy. I couldn’t play baseball,
which was to me, at
this childish age, a very serious business. I had trouble learning to
ride a bicycle. I’d sort
of cry because I couldn’t do it, you know. Then finally I could do it. I
was a rather
weakish sort of a child. That’s also important, because I was worried
when I went to the
new neighborhood, whether I would be accepted by the kids. So that I
remember — that
burning thing was important, that they liked it and they used it, so I
was in, for a while.
Every once in a while I would get kicked out of the group. We had a hut,
for instance—
there was a little group — and I’d get kicked out for something. But
each time I’d get
kicked out for something, I’d invent something to get back in—like a
periscope for the
hut, or a design for a second story, or something. Anyhow, to get back
to the other
story, I would go to school, and at some period some bullies began to
have fun. When I
would come into the play yard, they’d hit me, knock me over. One would
stand behind
me, say, “What are you doing here today?” — poom, you know. And I didn’t
know how
to handle it. I couldn’t handle it. It was really quite a miserable and
unhappy experience.
But about that time, approximately that time, I overheard some kids
talking as we were
going into the school, older kids from a higher grade, and one was
saying to the other,
“Rust? Rust is iron chloride.” Well, it was natural for me to realize
that what wrong right
away, and say, “No, excuse me, rust is iron oxide. Oxygen comes from the
air and it
mixes with the iron and it makes iron oxide.” These kids eyes popped out
and they asked
me a lot of other questions. They were seniors, you know, in a higher
grade. So the next
time I came into the courtyard and these guys started to fool around,
these other fellows
came over and stopped them, and said, “No, we want to talk to him,” and
so on. They
talked to me quite a bit, and they would talk to me quite a bit. You
know, I was
competent, with their science. Actually I was probably making it easy
for them to pass
the questions. But they got interested in me, and that stopped the other
guys, and
everything was all right after that.
Weiner:
Was this a junior high school?
Feynman:
No, this was grammar school. It was sixth, seventh grade, something —
no, fifth year.
Fifth year.
Weiner:
They were probably in their eighth?
Feynman:
Sixth, seventh, probably, yes. I was in the fifth. I was in the third,
fourth and fifth in that
school. There are a lot of things. Let me tell more, now I remember.
When I was in
25
arithmetic class, we were learning for the first time presumably — I
think for the first
time — decimal fractions, and we had problems. One of the problems was 3
1/8. I
wrote 3.125. Then it hit some chord in memory and I wrote “equals pi,
equals
circumference, ratio of circumference is equal to diameter of a circle.”
The teacher came
by and looked at this and crossed it out, and said, “No, pi is 3.1416.”
I remember that.
My father taught me about pi before I had learned in the school the
decimals for
fractions, and explained decimals. See, I was really ahead in
arithmetic. I remember him
telling me about pi as a great and marvelous mystery. Everything was
always dramatic —
that all circles have the same ratio of the distance around to the
distance across, and that
this number, this strange number, is of very great significance, and is
a marvelous
number. So pi was like in gold letters, you see. So I thought I’d hit pi
again at last, in the
school, when I saw the decimal, but it wasn’t quite right. I just say
these things to give
you some idea of the relationship of what I knew from the home to what
was going on
in the school.
Weiner:
And in the neighborhood, as a matter of fact. You managed to relate it
to that.
Feynman:
Yeah. Yeah.
Weiner:
The Cedarhurst period, then, seems to have been a very fruitful period.
Feynman:
Yeah, that is when I really began to change. I had had a chemistry set
even earlier, when
I was in Far Rockaway, in another house which I have forgotten now. My
father gave it
to me for a birthday present, or somebody gave it to me for a present —
the earliest one.
What happened to the earliest one was, it was too early. I played around
with a little bit,
and a lot of the kids from the neighborhood came, and I showed them the
chemistry set.
They were big boys, and they took the thing outside, while I stood more
or less
helplessly by, and they mixed everything with everything else and poured
it on the
sidewalk and tried to put a match to it. I stood far back, because I was
afraid it would
explode. It was full of water, of course, it wouldn’t explode. But I
still remember that it
was brownish and made bubbles, when you mixed everything together. But
that was not
the way I thought to do things. This, to me, was a kind of destruction.
This was not the
thing that a chemistry set was good for. You see, I never played that
way. I never played
chaotically with scientific things. I realized that their real value was
in doing something
carefully and watching what happened, and it was real pleasure. It was
worth it. And this
26
other stuff was just a terrible, silly way to behave. But anyway, I was
too young then to
want another set or to do anything with it. In those days I just played.
But in Cedarhurst
is when consciously the science really developed, until I was doing a
lot of things.
Weiner:
You didn’t mind playing with someone else if he would take the same
approach.
Feynman:
That’s right, of course, like Mortner, for example, yes, sure. We played
a lot together.
Weiner:
Before you got to high school, let’s take a bit more of that period.
Feynman:
All right. Let’s put us back in the house in Far Rockaway, the second
time. By this time,
having had this Cedarhurst experience, it was not long after I was in
that house that I got
a laboratory in my room. I had had, in the basement of the other house,
a sort of lab,
here I tasted the chemicals and—oh yes, we also played a trick on my
mother there. We
put sodium ferrocyanide — sodium ferrocyanide? — or something, in the
towels, and
another substance, an iron salt, probably alum, in the soap. When they
come together,
they make blue ink. So we were supposed to fool my mother, you see. She
would wash
her hands, and then when she dried them, her hands would turn blue. But
we didn’t
think the towel would turn blue. This was all in the Cedarhurst era.
Anyway, she was
horrified. The screams of “My good linen towels!” But she was always
cooperative. She
never was afraid of those experiments. The bridge people, the bridge
partners, would tell
her, “How can you let the child have a laboratory?” This was later, too.
And so on –-
“And blow up the house!” — and all this kind of talk. She just said,
“It’s worth it.” I
mean, “It’s worth the risk.” She understood that it was worthwhile. She
didn’t like it that
we ruined her good towels, at all. But we tried to get the stain out, we
boiled them, we
did everything. It just turned yellow from iron oxide.
Weiner:
Then she encouraged your father’s help to you, too.
Feynman:
Oh, yes. Oh, yes. OK, I’m supposed to get back into the house in Far
Rockaway, second
time? All right? So now, I’m getting a real laboratory, a better one, in
my room. My
27
father got an old packing case from a radio, a big thing about five feet
long and three
feet high. I started actually by making things out of erector set motors
and so on, and
playing. He had said to me, “Electrochemistry is a new field, very
important field, so
what’s electrochemistry? It’s the action of electricity on chemicals.” I
still remember. See,
I loved my father. Everything he told me was great. I still remember
having a little pile of
some chemical; I can’t remember what, from a chemistry set, and taking
the two wires
from the electric plug and putting them into the dry chemical. Nothing
whatever
happened. But that was my first to discover what electrochemistry was —
see; because
he’d told me it was a big deal. See, that kind of stuff. Anyhow, we got
this laboratory,
from these beginnings, which were on the floor — junk was piling up, and
then when we
got this lab, we put everything in it. I had this laboratory for years,
even when I was in
high school. I kept it. We moved it and everything. In that house, I was
still not in high
school, but I was developing electrical interests. Crystal sets — I had
a crystal set in the
house that I’d used to listen all night to “The Shadow,” and ENO
Effervescent Salts
were being sold on the radio, and all this kind of stuff. Then, by
buying in rummage
sales, I would gradually get one tube sets and things like that, which I
would fix, and
connect the battery that I had — this old storage battery.
Weiner:
How’d you know how to fix them?
Feynman:
I don’t know how I learned all this. It’s probable that what happened is
— you see, they
probably were not broken, in. an unobvious way. They were probably
broken by, when
you look inside there’s a wire hanging off here, there’s a connection.
It began that way,
you see, and then as you got deeper in it, you got more and more
involved, and you
learned more about it, you see. That’s the way the thing is. At the
beginning I would fix,
if I could, simple things in a simple way, and so on. I’d be very
excited if it would work.
Then I would try to get distant radio stations with this thing, and sit
up all night, and
have speakers and electrical things. Then also, I guess I did — it was
electrochemistry —
I found out that if you put the 110 volt line through an electric light
bulb, so you don’t
blow a fuse, through water, it would boil the water. Oh, we used to
develop pictures in
those days, too, in our basement.
Weiner:
Who’s “we” in this case?
Feynman:
You know, the cousins, and so on. We developed pictures. I remember
using the
developing trays, which were waxed, so that they were insulated, putting
water in them,
28
and boiling it — and watching the most beautiful phenomenon at the end,
when all the
water boils away, and the last bit of water, it’s dry, is making sparks,
because it’s breaking
the circuit. And the sparks move around, because it breaks here, but the
water flows, you
see, and it flows here and connects, and then it makes another spark
here, and finally,
these lines of salt, and beautiful yellow and blue sparks! It’s a very
beautiful thing. In fact,
now that you remind me, I think I’ll have to set one up and see what it
looks like, after
all these years. I used to boil water all the time with this thing.
Weiner:
Did you enjoy working with your hands?
Feynman:
Yes. I did like this laboratory very much. I worked all the time. I
connected the whole
house up with wires to my lab, so that I could plug in with my earphones
to my radio
upstairs, anywhere in the house. Then I used that system in many ways. I
would also pipe
power down, and you could put a loudspeaker somewhere in the house, and
go upstairs
and broadcast from it, and all this kind of stuff. I found a way to
connect into the radio,
and so on. I was really learning — I mean, I’d begun to know something
already.
Weiner:
We’re now in Far Rockaway. How did this relate to the science courses
you took in
school?
Feynman:
They weren’t related yet. When we did finally get a science course in
school, which was
in the eighth grade, I was considerably beyond the course. In fact, I
had lots of trouble,
because I remember, my friend and I — the man drew on the blackboard (I
still
remember, you know, he’s going to explain how a projection system works,
you know,
the projector that makes pictures on the wall) — so he drew a light
bulb, and he draws a
lens and so on to explain. Then he draws lines coming out of the light
bulb parallel, the
rays of light going parallel to each other. So, I don’t remember whether
it was I or my
friend, but one of us said, “But that can’t be right. The rays come out
from the filament
radially, in all directions.” I don’t know if I used the word
“radially,” but anyway, we
explained. He turned around and said, “I say they go parallel, so they
go parallel!” Well,
this didn’t sit well with us, because I knew, certainly, that no matter
what he said, the
rays didn’t go parallel. But that was the level of the class. We were
ahead of it, and we
knew the errors in everything that was taught. I never learned anything
in the class,
except that a meter was 39.37.
29
Weiner:
You remember that?
Feynman:
Yes. He was extremely good at teaching memory. He had a little side
course in which he
taught memory. He had a clever little sub-thing; I remember distinctly,
because he said,
“Now we’re going to remember how many centimeters in a meter.” You see?
He said,
“Now, a number is hard to remember, ta-ta-ta” — he would explain
something. It was
Public School No. 39, so that helped with the first two digits, and I
don’t remember the
rules for the second digits, but I remember 39.37 was the number.
Weiner:
39 was the number of the school, you remember?
Feynman:
That’s right. It helped to remember the 39, you see, so you could
remember that easily. I
don’t remember how we remembered the 37, on top of that, after the 39,
but he had
some gimmick.
Weiner:
Do you recall how you reacted to that course? I think right here you’re
demonstrating
that you have a magnificent memory. This could be through association
and through
other things.
Feynman:
Of course. The man himself as apparently — as I look now, with older
eyes, I can
interpret — but the man at that time was a sort of a heavyish, loud,
kind of difficult
fellow, but he had interesting things about memory. Because for a child,
even if it’s
wrong, it’s fascinating. I mean, he can make it interesting. So he was
an interesting
character. But we had to call him Major Connolly, because he had been a
major in the
First World War, and so he still had his title, you know. So we called
him Major
Connolly, without it bothering us any, because we didn’t make any
significance of it, but
it was important to him, apparently. He did try to teach this thing.
Nobody — you see,
the thing is, you have to realize, it’s an actual desert. The school is
absolutely empty.
Look, that little thing in arithmetic, four equations, four unknowns —
the principal had
to look at it. Nobody knew anything. And he knew more than anybody, but
not much,
see. But the thing is, he was a liar. He would tell stories about when
he was in the war.
He was in an airplane, and he helped the man invent the machine gun
which shot
30
between the propeller blades as the blade went around, because first
they used to shoot
the propellers off. And he was in the plane when they were making tests,
and something
went wrong, and they shot the propeller off, and as he was coming down,
the wing fell
off, and all kinds of stuff, he would say. I don’t know whether, at the
time, I believed it
or didn’t believe it. He was difficult. One had to be careful with him.
He wouldn’t tell
you anything right. I knew that.
Weiner:
You knew it at the time.
Feynman:
Yeah, I knew it at the time, because the scientific things, they were
cockeyed. And also
the stories were often incredible. Incredible. Amusing but incredible
stories about his
exploits in the war — he was such an important character, he was always
in the forefront
of everything, a very important development, like the machine gun. And
then to save
himself, after all the terrible things that happened to the airplane! It
was impossible.
Shouldn’t we have some coffee?
Weiner:
I’d like to — it’s very interesting, just the one final point — you had
confidence that you
knew —
Feynman:
— why don’t we talk while we have the coffee?
Weiner:
All right. You had confidence in what you knew, at that stage.
Feynman:
Oh, yeah. Oh yes.
Weiner:
Was this self-conscious confidence? Did you realize that that’s what you
had?
Feynman:
31
No. You see, it was confidence because, it was true. I can’t explain it
to you. It wasn’t
that I knew that I was smart. It was just that — you see, scientific
things are rationally
right. It isn’t as if I had learned history, and someone would then tell
me that the fact I
had memorized was wrong, and I would have confidence because I knew I’d
looked it
up in the book. But the fact that the light had to come from the
filament radially, it never
even seemed to me as a fact that I had to learn. It seemed to me, from
my other
knowledge, sort of obvious. How the hell can it come out parallel? There
isn’t any
filament up there, you see; the filament’s all here. I don’t know if you
can understand it.
Weiner:
I do, I do.
Feynman:
The thing was not a matter of confidence in knowledge, but simply an
understanding of
the world, a world view by which this was evidently false. That’s all.
Weiner:
But you can relate it to other things.
Feynman:
It wasn’t a matter of confidence. It was just a matter that this was
obviously cockeyed. I
can’t explain it to you. It just seems to me it was wrong, it was
clearly wrong. See, I’d
already got the idea of what I look at, what I see. That was certainly
brought in from my
father directly — that things I see, the things that are seen, or the
things that even are
not seen, but if you look at it very carefully — that that’s the way to
know what’s right,
and that many people have said things, without looking, that were wrong,
because they
didn’t look. That aspect was vital, of course, to science. And that I
knew. I knew that
people, authorities, often stated things that weren’t true, because they
didn’t know, and
they would just say it. So this was just one of those things to me — I
mean, somebody
claiming he knew this, and he had to say it. I knew what he was worried
about, I’m sure.
I mean, I can’t remember for sure my feelings, but I believe I knew,
that I had the
feeling, and my friend had the feeling, that he was just upset because
in front of the
whole class we caught him, and he probably would even have to admit that
he — If he
didn’t want to try to defend himself, he would have admitted. It was
obviously right. I
think we both understood that he was defending himself against
criticism, by just simply
saying, “It’s true.” I’m not sure, but I believe that.
Weiner:
That’s a mature attitude, but not too mature for the age.
32
Feynman:
There were two of us, and we would talk about it.
Weiner:
That was the extent of the science, then, in the grade school, just one
course?
Feynman:
Yes, it was one big general science course.
Weiner:
Was it a year or a semester?
Feynman:
No, no, it was just one day a week — the science class. The girls didn’t
go to it. The girls
had some other thing. We had shop and science, and they had cooking and
maybe
dressmaking or something, sewing or something. It was one of these small
bits of
science. Oh, there’s a very important thing I forgot to tell you. I was
going on about the
last year, approximately the last year in the grammar school. I had
gotten pretty good,
see. I mean, I’d done these things and I was very interested, and I knew
a lot about
things. My dentist was to me the scientist in the town — that is, the
professional man,
who had something to do with science, you understand. So I looked at him
as though he
were a scientist, because I knew no better. I would talk to my dentist
about many things.
I would get a rash on my face or something, or some tooth thing. I would
ask details,
and he would give me details, tell me all about how the teeth worked and
how the rash
worked, as much as he knew, and he was a source of information in
science. Because I
asked so many questions, he realized I was quite interested, and so on,
and he had, as a
patient, a teacher in the high school. He told the teacher in the high
school about this
kid. So the teacher in high school, whose name was William LeSeur, said,
“Let him come
around after school one day a week to the chemistry laboratory where I
teach and he can
play around and so on” — you know, in the laboratory. Help out.
Assistant. “Lab
assistant, while we clean up,” and so on. So I used to go once a week to
the high school
in which Mr. LeSeur taught. Also another man who was there, Johnson,
took a great
interest in me — particularly Mr. Johnson — and let me have things to
play with and do
experiments. You know, he’d teach me stuff, we’d do some experiments,
I’d clean up
apparatus, and we’d talk about how things worked. I learned a great deal
there. This was
while I was still in grammar school.
33
Weiner:
How long did that go on?
Feynman:
Well, during the whole time — probably about nearly a year or maybe it
was a half a
year.
Weiner:
Your last year in grammar school.
Feynman:
Yeah. I remember that just suddenly, because I remember, in my other
science class,
with Major Connolly, I gave a demonstration of electrolysis to the kids,
for which I
borrowed electrolysis apparatus from the high school, and carried it
through the streets
on my bicycle. I thought it was the most expensive, remarkable piece of
apparatus. Did
you ever see them? It was the standard equipment, like a big H, you
know, with
graduated things and two stop-cocks — yeah. And then with platinum
electrodes in the
bottom. That, to me, was — ooh! — very valuable and marvelous. I carried
it as best I
could through the streets on my bicycle, and took it to make the
demonstration. But I
pushed the cork up, that held the electrodes, too hard, and broke the
glass. I was terrified
and upset by this. This I remember very distinctly—it was very serious.
I tried to wax it
closed. It was leaking while the demonstration was going on. When I took
it back to the
guys in the high school, I was rather upset, unhappy — I thought it was
so valuable. But
they didn’t seem to think it was so bad. It was all right. You know,
those things happen.
And so nothing bad happened to me.
Weiner:
Did you consult with Mr. Johnson and Mr. LeSeur? I mean, did you have an
opportunity
to discuss specific problems? Did they try to interest you in new
things?
Feynman:
Well, we talked about all kinds of things that would come up. They’d be
talking to each
other and I’d overhear. Or, I’d ask those questions that they may or may
not be able to
answer. I remember one particular question — it’s the only one I
remember, because
they didn’t give me a satisfactory answer. Or maybe they did. Anyway, I
remember the
question. “If everything is made out of atoms, and they’re always
jiggling and moving
about, how is it that something that you find that’s very old — like,
you make a screw,
now, and you leave it alone a long time, it still has the sharp corners
of the screw. Or you
34
make sharp things. How do the sharp things stay sharp for all this
period of time, if the
atoms are always jiggling?” In answer they told me about the fusion of
metals, that if you
put gold and silver together there is a gradual mixing. But I didn’t
feel that that was an
answer. I mean, that’s the kind — of level at which the whole thing was.
I would ask
questions. They would answer something, and so on. I was learning a lot.
I can’t
remember specifically what. I certainly learned a great deal. I saw
apparatus, I did
experiments —
Weiner:
— apparatus in that environment, a laboratory environment, rather than
in your own
home-made one.
Feynman:
Yeah. Also, I made a discovery, accidentally, by the seventh grade of
school, the last but
one. One day I was playing with my various pieces of equipment. I had a
microphone, I
had loudspeakers. I’d go to more junk and rummage sales and get junk. I
had a
loudspeaker that had no tube just the unit. I also had earphones. I had
this system,
connecting all over the house. I would try the earphones around and the
speakers and so
on. I had them both connected into a double plug, like the one over
there — I mean,
two-way plug. I was going to plug into the line, to listen, but I had
them both connected.
So therefore they were connected together. All right? Now, while I had
my earphones
on, I had my finger accidentally poking in the hole of the loudspeaker
and jiggling,
touching it, making a noise — and I heard the noise in the speaker. You
see, the
loudspeaker had a permanent magnet; when I shook the thing, I generated
a current. So
I had a telephone. I mean, I discovered that I could hear that. I’d
discovered a kind of
microphone. I hadn’t had a microphone a before. I made all kinds of
experiments. I
would talk from upstairs to downstairs and so on. I remember this
particularly, because
in the history class we were learning about the telephone, and I said
I’d give a
demonstration of the telephone. So I got a long vacuum cleaner cord and
two plugs on
each end, and plugged my loudspeaker to one end, to talk into, and the
earphones at the
other end. I went out of the room, you know, and had the wire running
under the door,
and listened, and somebody said something, and I came in and told them
what they said.
It was mine, I’d invented it, see? But I know now, as a matter of fact,
that that was the
design of the first kind of telephone.
Weiner:
The Bell one.
Feynman:
Yeah. Yeah. That’s the way it was in fact. If I had known that (I didn’t
know that) I
35
would have been even better in my history class, because I explained
that my telephone
was not really the right kind. I knew that it wasn’t. But I didn’t know
that it was in fact
historically the right kind.
Weiner:
In a couple of cases, you volunteered, then, to do extra things,
demonstrations?
Feynman:
Well, that was probably the result of the teachers. You know how the
teachers try to
involve the children. They would say, “Now, you have projects for this
and that” — you
know. I don’t know how, whether I volunteered or — I can’t remember, all
I remember
is doing it.
Weiner:
It was not at all unusual?
Feynman:
No, I don’t think so, there were different —
Weiner:
— other children would bring in something?
Feynman:
I think so. In the same period, before I got to high school, when I was
in this Far
Rockaway house, my cousin, who was three years older, had gotten to high
school and
was studying algebra. And he came home — see, he had a great
opportunity, he could
study algebra. So he came home, and he wasn’t very good. Or maybe he
wasn’t so bad,
but anyway his mother always thought the poor boy needed help. She
probably overdid
it. But anyway, the algebra was a terrible business, and so she tried to
help him with the
algebra. I remember the first day when he came home and he had this
algebra business,
and his mother was trying to help him. I sat quietly on the porch where
they were talking
about it, listening with all ears, trying to understand it. After his
mother went in for some
reason or other, I said to my cousin, “What is this algebra? What does
it mean, that X?
What does it mean 2X plus 3 equals 12 —?” No, let me make a good
problem, 11 –-
“2X plus 3 equals 11, what does it mean?” He’d say, “X is some number
that you don’t
know, and 2 times the number plus 3 equals 11.” I said, “You mean the
number’s 4?” He
said, “Sure it’s 4, but you did it by arithmetic. You have to do it by
algebra.” I’ve always
36
pitied the poor fellow. I don’t know what my reaction was at that time.
But whatever
way I did it, I wouldn’t give a damn — I know I didn’t care — to find
out what way you
had to do it, because it seemed to me, if I did it, I did it. But he was
forced in the school
to have to try to find a mystic way to do it, which I now know what it
is. The mystic way
is to write underneath, “Minus 3 equals minus 3” — we add, you know — or
3 equals 3
— we subtract — because equals subtracted from equals are equal, and
then — And all
this formal business: that way, he was getting thrown off the wagon,
because he
understood as much as I did on Page 1, which was X with some number and
you have to
find out what it was. But he was terrible in algebra and flunked most of
the time, because
there’s something the matter with that. I’d learned already something
about education,
because I tutored later, and to make sure that the idea of the subject
was clear, and not
to get mixed up with the formalities. I learned that from my cousin’s
difficulties. But I
also learned what algebra was like, that X would represent a number, and
that it was not
so hard. That was my beginning with algebra, which ultimately led to the
four equations,
four unknowns business — you had to find four numbers, you see. But I
got started
with it, and then I began to do the formalities, but I understood it.
Anyway, I got
interesting in that. But another thing — because of his difficulties, he
had a tutor who
came, whose name was Maskett. He’s now at the University of Virginia —
Al Maskett —
something like that — Albert? He came to tutor my cousin. I, of course,
was the young
boy fascinated with mathematics, so I was permitted to sit and listen
the first time. Just
to listen. Not to say anything. Then after the class, I talked to this
fellow Maskett a little
bit, and he became very interested in me and helped me a great deal.
What I talked to
him about was the following. I can remember it now, I can almost see it.
I had
discovered a formula for doing the following problem. Suppose you want
to add 1 plus 2
plus 3 plus 4 and so on — I don’t know why, but suppose, you know, up to
some
number. I had discovered that with the odd numbers, a certain rule
worked — like 1 plus
2 plus 3 is 6, 1 plus 2 plus 3 plus 4 plus 5 is 15 — I guess the rule
was, you multiply the
number, the odd number, by half of one more than the odd number.
Something like
that. Some rule. Then, at even numbers, I tried to find the rule, and I
eventually found
the rule for even numbers. So I remember going around — I still remember
–-
“Suppose,” I would say to my friends, “suppose a theater has a new idea.
Instead of
charging a definite amount for a movie, it charged” — because I always
wanted to make
application of these –- “1 penny for the first person who comes, you
see, so everybody
comes quick, and then the next person who has to pay 2 cents, the next
one 3 cents, and
so on and so on, until 100 people come. Now, how much money will they
collect? In the
movie, from this?” So they would sit, you know, and — that was my
machine. I could do
it, you see. Well, I showed this to Mr. Maskett the first time, and he
showed me that the
two rules which I had could be made into 1 — you multiply the number by
one more
than the number and then divide by 2. I’d had to have two rules. I was
very excited by
this. But he was excited, apparently — I mean, I would judge — from the
fact that this
little boy had cooked this thing up. So he was always interested in me,
and he would tell
me little things and help me along — like that, the formulae could be
made one, and so
on. He kept encouraging me in various ways to discover things. So I had
lots of good
contacts. Now, you asked me some time ago, before we recorded when I
began to feel
37
original — when I began to feel disconnected from — I don’t know what
you called it,
the umbilical cord, or something. But you see, from the beginning I was
disconnected. I
was trying to find a formula for adding the integers together because I
wanted the
formula. I didn’t care; it didn’t mean anything to me, that this was
worked out by the
Greeks or even by the Babylonians in 2000 BC. This didn’t interest me at
all. It was my
problem and I had fun out of it, you see. It was always that way. I was
always playing my
own independent game.
Weiner:
We’re still talking about this earlier period.
Feynman:
Yeah. I think I’ve about exhausted it by now! Yeah.
Weiner:
You were still living —
Feynman:
— yes, in the same house.
Weiner:
Maybe now we should get on to the high school period, if you’re ready?
I’m not rushing
you.
Feynman:
OK. I am ready. It’s interesting, just to get the whole thing — you
ready? Yeah. And
then another tiny thing from that period — earlier, even — is that my
father used to sit
me on his lap, and the one book that we did use all the time was the
ENCYCLOPEDIA
BRITANNICA. He used to sit me on his lap when I was a kid and read out
of the
damned thing. There would be pictures of dinosaurs, and then he would
read. He read
the long words –- “the dinosaur” so and so “attains a length of so and
so many feet and
the head is so and so many feet,” six feet wide or something. He would
always stop and
say, “You know what that means, 50 feet high and 6 feet wide, or 20 feet
high and 6 feet
wide?” “It means, if the dinosaur’s standing in our front yard, and your
bedroom
window, you know, is on the second floor, you’d see out the window his
head standing
looking at you. That’s what 20 feet is, because the height of one
story’s about 10 feet.
Further. If he tries to put his head in the window, he just can’t quite
make it, has to
38
break the sides.” I give this illustration because he would translate
everything, and I
learned to translate everything, so it’s the same disease. When I read
something, more or
less, I always translate it as best I can into, what it really means,
you see. So I learned that
then. And the reason I remember this is because I had a friend who had
an encyclopedia
too — this guy Bernie Walker. He had a thing called THE BOOK OF
KNOWLEDGE,
which was designed more for children, better for children. I couldn’t
stand it. It was very
poor. The facts were never sharp, you never were sure that — you know,
you had to get
the feeling of depth, honesty — I can’t explain it to you. Maybe it’s
fixed a little bit to
make it easier. You never felt right, you know. Furthermore, the thing
that bothered me
the most was the index. My father taught me how to use an index, and
that doggoned
index would have things under W — under W you’d have to look to find
“What is a
horse?” or “What is the history of the horse?” — under W! This I
realized. I mention
this because you were talking about the fact that I didn’t respect
authority. Not only that
but I also realized that there were stupidities in the world, that
people made dumb
books. I’d already learned a lot by the time I was coming into high
school of disrespect
for authorities, for certain authors, for opinions of people. I knew the
world was a dopey
place, and that there were only a limited amount of people who had this
rational—you
know, like the NEW YORK TIMES was a good newspaper, the encyclopedia was
—
Weiner:
— what paper did you read in your house?
Feynman:
I don’t think I read. My father read the TIMES. That’s probably why I
knew it was a
good paper. Then I went to high school. OK?
Weiner:
Yes. Let me ask at this point, when you were in grade school, did you
view going to high
school as a new, important stage?
Feynman:
Oh yes, sure. I mean, I was interested in learning, of course, and the
high school was
opportunity. After all, in high school the kids were learning algebra. I
mean, you know,
this same business — my cousin would have the opportunity. So, I went to
high school.
Also, I liked the high school. I knew some of the teachers, you
remember, I went to the
high school—because after all, they had all this apparatus, they had all
these classes. It
must have been great to be in high school.
Weiner:
39
Where was the high school located in relation to your home?
Feynman:
A mile away. We walked every day.
Weiner:
This was Far Rockaway High School? Was that the name of it?
Feynman:
Yes. So I went to high school.
Weiner:
Excuse me for another interruption. This would be in about 1931?
Feynman:
Just so. In the beginning, I discovered the algebra class was impossible
for me. It was
terribly boring.
Weiner:
In your freshman year?
Feynman:
Well, yeah, because I’d learned the algebra. After all, I was doing four
equations, four
unknowns, and all kinds of wild things, and they were learning X plus 2
equals 6, and
subtracting 2 from each side. I could see the answers before they wrote
the equations. It
was just terrible. I stood this for an entire semester, half a year
nearly, because I was a
very timid boy. I didn’t just run up and say, “Look, I know all this
stuff.” But ultimately I
was essentially forced into it. I said to the teacher, “It’s horrible,
I’m not learning
anything,” and so on — or maybe she even suggested it — I can’t tell you
now, but
anyhow, I was sent — I think partly on my own power, that I had enough
nerve to say
something — I was sent to the head of mathematics called Dean Ogsberry,
who was
called the Iron Duke, because he was also the disciplinarian, so it was
in some awe and
fear that I went to his office. He was a very difficult fellow, in a
certain way, — really
very kindly, but the boys all thought the other way. But he had to be a
disciplinarian. So I
went in and I told him my problem. “Oh,” he said, “you find the algebra
too easy, do
you? All right. I’ll give you a problem. You sit over there and solve
it. When you’ve
40
finished solving it, I’ll look it over, and I’ll decide what we can do.”
He gave me a
problem. He made it up, you know, simplify something complicated and
solve for X and
some fraction. Well, the darned thing went up to a quadratic equation. I
didn’t know
how to solve quadratic equations, and I kept doing everything under the
sun — divide
X, put on the other side — all kinds of things. I couldn’t figure out
how to solve the
darned thing, and I was going around in circles, and sweat was pouring
out. He said,
“Take your time,” and all this kind of stuff. I remember it. It was very
dramatic, you
know. Somebody else was in the office and they said, “Don’t listen to
us, just go ahead,
work, take your time.” But taking any time didn’t make any difference. I
was going
around in circles. I couldn’t get out the number from the quadratic
equation, even by
trial and error, because it wasn’t one that came out X equals 2. In
fact, I realize now he’d
simply written some complicated expression with Xs in it, to find X, and
it wasn’t from a
textbook, and it didn’t come out easy, and I couldn’t do it by trial and
error, and I
couldn’t get it. So he looked at the papers, which were all scrawled all
over, you know,
up and down, upside down, everything turned inside out. He looked the
whole thing
over. I was sure I was going to get sent back to Grade 1, but he said,
“No, you can go
into the Second Grade.” He’d probably seen that some of the steps were
all right, that I
was just stuck in one place, which it turned out is true. The quadratic
equations were
only in the second year. Anyway, he sent me into another class which was
called 2X —
not the regular 2 — which was for people who’d flunked math 2 the second
year, and
had a special teacher known as Battleship Moore, who was especially good
with students
that weren’t very good. So I was put into this class. They had had
everything before, but
anyway they’d been the lower end of the class. She was very good at
teaching this. So I
was in that class, and I learned stuff from her, because there were
things that came up in
that class that I didn’t know, like quadratic equations. Some stuff I
learned from her, but
I quickly learned for myself, you know. I knew where the problems were.
Then I would
learn by myself. I also remember a thing that happened in that class.
See, when I first
went into that class I was, along with the others, a dumb one, like the
others, because it
was ahead of me, so to speak. But one day she writes equations on the
board which is
something like 2 to the X equals 32, 2 to the X power equals 32. What’s
X? Nobody can
make head or tail of it, it’s a new problem, and they haven’t the
slightest idea. I said, “X
is 5.” “How do you know?” “Well,” I said, “32 is 2 times 2 is” — and so
on – “so it has
to be.” The point is I understood what the problem meant, whereas the
others didn’t
understand what the problem meant. And that’s the real horror of
teaching. You can
teach all the formalities you like, but the unfortunate students never
learn what the idea
of it is, whereas if you understand the idea it’s relatively easy, you
don’t need the formal
things so much. Anyway, the fact that I was able to get X equals 5 out
of that made all
the other students partly angry, a little jealous, not really, probably
— and a lot of them
admiring. You know. And I became somebody in the class. They thought
that I had
learned it somewhere else and that even amazed me more, that they should
think that
you had to learn something like that in order to do it — you had to
study it somewhere.
It seemed to me obvious, you see. I began to learn about how the minds
of other people
work, and it was more surprise to me that they thought I had learned it
somewhere, that
they couldn’t see, after I explained it to them, and then it was
obvious. It’s the same as
41
your question, how did I know, did I have confidence, and that the rays
came out
radially. It was sort of like, the facts of the world. It was almost
evident that that’s the
only thing it could mean, you know.
Weiner:
This implies that you felt there was a certain structure to this
knowledge.
Feynman:
I don’t know. I can’t say. It seems to me if you say 2 to the X equals
32, I know what it
means. X always represents some number, so if the number happens to be
up there as an
exponent, does it make any difference? I mean, we knew about exponents.
Does it make
any difference the problem? It’s 2 to the something is 32 — the
[inaudible] of 32 is 2 to
the 5th. I can’t explain to you why. I never understood what the matter
with everybody
else was. I never really understood what the trouble was. The thing that
bothered them
was that this was an entirely new matter, and how could this fellow know
it? Only by
having studied it before. But to me it was not an entirely new matter at
all; it was the
same old principle. You use X for a number that you don’t know, and the
answer to, 2 to
what power is 32 — It is not something I have to study before. I
remember this
distinctly, because it gave me a feeling of a difference between myself
and the other
students.
Weiner:
By this time, your friend wasn’t with you in high school?
Feynman:
Yes, he was. Leonard. Not Bernard Walker, but Leonard Mortner had come
from
Cedarhurst and had moved to Far Rockaway, fortunately, and was with me
in high
school.
Weiner:
That’s really coincidence, isn’t it?
Feynman:
Yes, it is. Pure coincidence — ever since. He was at MIT with me. He’s
out here now.
It’s very interesting, a series of coincidence.
Weiner:
42
So you were with him in high school again.
Feynman:
Yes. Now, during the high school years, in the mathematical world, I had
another few
things. I wanted to learn calculus. I’d heard that calculus was big
stuff, after algebra. I
can’t get the timing right. There’s another thing in geometry that comes
first. When we
were first starting geometry — I don’t remember; that must be the second
year of high
school, because I think you take algebra first — my friend and I,
Mortner and I, went
into the geometry class the first day or two. And we had heard — my
father had told me
— that it’s impossible to trisect an angle. My father had first told me,
it’s impossible to
trisect a triangle — that is, to find three pieces which are the same
area as the original
triangle, for an equilateral triangle, and I had done it. For a not
equilateral triangle. I had
figured it out. That’s possible. But they weren’t the same shape, and he
said, “No, the
problem’s to make them the same shape, and they must be three
triangles.” But that
seemed to me trivially obvious, that you can’t put three triangles
together to make a
triangle, you see, so I knew that he didn’t have it right, and I kind of
pushed on him, and
he remembered then that it was to trisect the angle. So he had taught me
the problem,
first incorrectly. So I told Mortner, or he told me, that it’s
impossible; so we decided we
were going to try it after all. So we started to work on trisecting the
angle. Well, we knew
that bisecting the angle could be done by bisecting the cord that goes
straight across, in
the isosceles triangle. So, incorrectly, we supposed that the problem
was to trisect that
line across the face of the angle. We had converted to trisecting a
line. OK? You
understand?
Weiner:
Yes, I visualize this.
Feynman:
Yeah, but it isn’t really true that if you trisect the straight line you
really trisect the angle,
but we didn’t notice that. So we had converted the problem to trisecting
a line. Then we
started to work on it, and we played around and we played around, and we
discovered,
empirically, by drawing pictures, that an equilateral triangle, if you
drew the three
altitudes, that the point where they met, in the dead center of the
equilateral triangle, is
one-third the way up the altitude. It seemed like. So we made it very
carefully, on a big
piece of graph paper, a very careful equilateral triangle, measured it
as accurately as we
could, and sure enough, it’s one-third of the way up. We couldn’t prove
it but we knew it
was one-third of the way up. Therefore, we had the solution, provided
that we could
construct the equilateral triangle in the right place, so that this line
would be the altitude,
you see. So the problem was — we thought the problem was — to find an
equilateral
triangle, to put an equilateral triangle, at a given altitude. And that
took us a day or two
43
to figure out. It’s possible, of course. We finally got that. While
we’re getting it, we’re
thinking. We’re riding around on our bicycles — boy, it’ll be in the
papers! You know,
two high school students, hardly starting out geometry, solve the
trisection of the angle! I
remember riding our bicycles, as we were riding, we’d stop suddenly. You
know, we were
talking about it — we’d suddenly stop and get off and draw some
pictures, and so on. A
very exciting week. Then, I had this thing. I went home, and I was
drawing it up — you
know, making some constructions for angles, to look good. Then I said
what about big
obtuse angles? So I made a very obtuse angle, and I went through the
whole
construction on the paper, and looked at the angles, and it was very
poor. Then I
suddenly realized — horror of horrors!— that we hadn’t trisected the
angle at all. But of
course we had learned a lot of geometry.
Weiner:
These expectations of the newspaper headlines —
Feynman:
Yes, that’s always with me. Whenever you do research, and got a partial
solution, or
think you’re getting a solution — or get a partial solution, or think
you’re getting a
solution — or at least, me — I always imagine a kind of a daydream, an
exaggerated
daydream, of the impression.
Weiner:
Upon what?
Feynman:
Well, colleagues, or something. That you write the paper in the PHYSICAL
REVIEW,
you see. Or you imagine that the paper — but the paper is very simple,
you see. Or you
imagine that the paper — but the paper is very simple, you see. For
instance, we don’t
know why E squared over HC is 137, you know. So you daydream. “It is
apparent that”
— tatata, one paragraph of idea –- “so [garbled…] function we obtain” —
tata! Just two
paragraphs! Send it in to the PHYSICAL REVIEW. Great discovery! A dream.
You
know? Crazy dreams. Just daydreams. Not serious, just a fun idea, the
same as the two
kids and the newspaper. The very same idea. “Two children in high school
first learning
geometry solve the age-old problem of the trisection of the angle.” But
we didn’t realize
in fact at that time what a fantastic sensation it would have been!
Weiner:
That was your first day in class, when you walked into class, you
mentioned the challenge
that you felt for the geometry class.
44
Feynman:
Geometry. Yes. We knew that was geometry, and I knew that one of the
great problems
of geometry was trisecting an angle. So the heck with learning all these
little bits and
pieces, we would go ahead and do the big problem, you see! That’s a way
to learn,
though — I’m telling you.
Weiner:
He was older than you. Were you in the same class?
Feynman:
Oh — no, I guess he was the same age, then.
Weiner:
Because we were trying to establish that earlier. We weren’t quite sure.
Feynman:
He must have been the same age.
Weiner:
He was in the same class?
Feynman:
I’m sure he was. We did not have more knowledge of the subject than I
did at that time.
Definitely not.
Weiner:
It’s possible you took the course later, in sequence —
Feynman:
— it must have been the same age. It must have been the same age,
because I just know
that he didn’t know more than I did about it, or vice versa. We did it
together. It was the
same age.
45
Weiner:
What other mathematics did you have in high school?
Feynman:
Well, what I had in the classes — ultimately, through the whole high
school, I took later
solid geometry and trigonometry. In solid geometry was the first time I
ever had any
mathematical difficulties. I don’t know why it was, but in the beginning
the solid
geometry class was complete and absolute chaos, and I couldn’t
understand anything. It
was my only experience with how it must feel to the ordinary human
being. Then I
discovered what was wrong. The diagrams that were being drawn on the
blackboard
were three-dimensional, and I was thinking of them as plane diagrams,
and I couldn’t
understand what the hell was going on. Suddenly I understood what was
going on. Then
it was child’s play again. It was a mistake in orientation.
Weiner:
And in the question of your spatial perception, really.
Feynman:
No, I mean, once I understood it, it was easy. It was just that I didn’t
think there might
be diagrams in three dimensions. Just crazy. In fact, it’s dumb, because
the subject was
called solid geometry, but somehow or other I was trying to understand
what he was
talking about, when he would draw pictures, and I would see a
parallelogram, and he
called it a square, because it was tilted out of the plane, you know.
And I -– “Oh God,
this thing doesn’t make any sense! What is he talking about?” I caught
on after about two
weeks, or three weeks, but it was terrifying, for a while. It was a
terrifying experience.
Butterflies in my stomach kind of feeling — here, this subject,
completely un-
understandable. And I’d never had any trouble with mathematics. This was
terrifying.
But it was just a dumb mistake. I suspect that this kind of a dumb
mistake is very
common, to people learning mathematics — that dumb mistake, the same
kind of a
mistake my cousin made — he understood the idea but he didn’t understand
the idea,
and then, he doesn’t know what he means, “to do it by algebra,” and he
can’t ever
understand the subject and always feels that there’s a missing piece.
But part of the
missing understanding is to mistake what it is you’re supposed to know.
Weiner:
Doesn’t solid geometry imply the development of special perception —
that is, to be
able to see things in depth.
46
Feynman:
Well, you can. That wasn’t my trouble. That’s no trouble. I don’t have
any trouble —
Weiner:
— no, until you recognized —
Feynman:
I was misreading the diagrams, that’s all. He would call a square — you
draw a
parallelogram on the blackboard and call it a square? OK. But I didn’t
understand what
he means. It’s a square out that way. It’s not that I can’t visualize,
it’s that I didn’t know
what he meant. I had no trouble visualizing. In fact, I’m good at it. In
fact, I could
almost visualize four dimensions. I can tell you properties of four
dimensional geometry
because I exercised for the purpose, to see if it was possible. I
practiced, and I got some
vague way of seeing, not very clearly, but usually can tell you things
in four dimensions
that are right, by a half-visualizing — very poor, very coarse, but not
impossible. No, I
had no trouble with special visualization. That wasn’t the trouble. We
also had
trigonometry. But when I was in Miss Moore’s 2X class, I got interested
in calculus. As a
matter of fact, I got interested in calculus earlier than that. A new
set of books had come
into the library, the public library. The public library had nothing. It
had the
ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA. It had a few books that were interesting — the
ABC OF RELATIVITY. MATHEMATICAL PHILOSOPHY by Russell was the most
wonderful book — it was deep — that I studied.
Weiner:
When did you read it?
Feynman:
In the high school era. Exactly when, I don’t know. But then they got a
series of books
called ARITHMETIC FOR THE PRACTICAL MAN, which didn’t interest me
because
it was insurance rates and so on — ALGEBRA FOR THE PRACTICAL MAN, which
I
read very easily — TRIGONOMETRY FOR THE PRACTICAL MAN, which I read
through and then forgot. This was before I got to trigonometry in high
school, long
before, and I didn’t find it useful or interesting. And CALCULUS FOR THE
PRACTICAL MAN, which I also got. I remember this time, because I had to
lie, and I
was a very honest boy. I’d been trained to be very honest. But I went to
take the calculus
book out, and the teacher — sorry, the librarian — said, “Child, you
can’t take this book
out. Why are you taking this book out?” I said, “It’s for my father.”
And so I took it
home, and I tried to learn a little bit. My father looked at the first
few paragraphs and
couldn’t understand it, and this was rather a shock to me — a little bit
of a shock, I
47
remember. It was the first time I realized that I could understand what
he couldn’t
understand. I can’t remember exactly now, but I did study calculus one
time, and forgot
the whole thing, I believe. But at least I studied trigonometry and
definitely forgot the
whole thing. But some time later, when I was inventing the solution of a
certain kind of
problem (dopey problem — problems of the kind you’re given, that the
hypothesis is a
certain amount of more than the one side, you see and stuff of this kind
— problems
like you have a flagpole, how far out will the string be if you hold it
taut? You see) —
Incidentally, I remember now, everything I would do like this, I would
always have a
practical problem to exemplify it. I have always thought the thing was
no good unless
you could use it somehow. I realize now.
Weiner:
Would you try the practical problem?
Feynman:
I would use it to make up these problems, to illustrate the power of my
inventions, you
see. I’d invent a method of solving such a problem. Then I would
illustrate it with
practical problems which I would invent, like the flagpole and the
string, see.
Weiner:
But you didn’t feel the need to erect the flagpole and —
Feynman:
— oh no, no, no — I didn’t mean that way. I meant I’d get examples from
my
mathematics. Anyhow, I was fiddling around with such theorems and
developing a
number of theorems about triangles of this kind. And I had known the
definition of a
sine, co-sine and tangent, from the old days. I discovered what
corresponds to sine over
co-sine is tangent. It’s very simple. I also discovered, sine squared
plus co-sine squared
equals 1. I discovered again, you know. I didn’t remember them. But what
I did
remember, that was trigonometry, was the relationship of the sine,
co-sine, tangent, and
there were things like cosecant, secant — I remembered that, and there
were a lot of
relations of some kind. Then there were things with double angles and
sums of angles
and everything else, all of which I couldn’t remember, but I know what
the subject was
about, you see. So I started with sine, co-sine and tangent, found these
relationships, and
discovered that I could express each one in terms of the others, in
terms of one another.
I made a big table — how you express a tangent in terms of sine, or
co-sine. See, I
worked the tables out. Then I began to work with double angles and
proving theories —
that the sine of twice an angle is twice the sine times the co-sine. You
might be amused
at how I ever did that, but I did it, one way or another. I proved all
the theories. I found
the formula for sine of the sum of two angles and the co-sine, and all
these things, and
48
all the trigonometry formulas, and developed them quite a bit. And each
one had its own
ingenious proof, which was personal and my own, because I’ve seen them,
and some of
them are very clever, much better than in the book. And some of them are
also dumb.
They go all around Robin Hood’s barn to come around here. You can see a
shortcut
immediately, through here. But that was the character of it. I think I
can find that
notebook. I’ll see if I can find that notebook.
Weiner:
That would be interesting. Were you aware that such tables existed?
Feynman:
Of course, I knew that in trigonometry, that this was the subject. But I
was working it
out for myself. I didn’t care to know what the answer was; I wanted to
see if I could do
it. It was always the pleasure of doing it. In fact, after I had
developed enough formulas
for the sine of an angle, sine of a double angle, like five degrees, I
could work out the
sine and co-sine of 10 degrees and so on. I could make the whole table
of sines, every
five degrees. So I opened a book and picked up the sine of 5 degrees. I
shouldn’t have
even had to do that, of course, but I did that. I remember the book. It
had the sine of 5
degrees, and that was in a square. All the other numbers were worked out
by
calculations. So I was always interested in the power of the formulas,
what they could
really do. So I worked out the whole table of the sine. I had a table of
sine, co-sine and
tangents, in my notebook, worked out, that I worked out from knowing
only the sine of
5 degrees. Just games.
Weiner:
This must have taken up quite a bit of time.
Feynman:
Oh, yes. I did a lot of playing around.
Weiner:
This was at home, and in your playing time.
Feynman:
Yes. So when I really got to trigonometry class, it was almost a waste
of time. You see,
most of the classes that I was in, I would only do the things just, you
know, on the side.
I didn’t are. It was easy.
49
Weiner:
Well, did you get grades in them?
Feynman:
Oh yes, I got very good grades in them. But I already knew almost
everything that was in
the sciences and mathematics in my school. I never learned anything in
the class — or
practically nothing. The teacher of the trigonometry class was Mr.
Ogsberry, and by this
time I had met another man, whose name was Herbert Harris, who was very
clever in
mathematics, and we were friends there. Mr. Mortner had gone away, to
some other
place. Harris and I were in the trigonometry class. I believe Harris was
a year older, but
because I was good in arithmetic I was higher. Well, Mr. Ogsberry in the
trigonometry
class said — or maybe it was permutations and commutations — advanced
algebra, we
also had advanced algebra — in that class he said that he has two
problems which from
time to time he has given to students, and they have never solved them.
This is his great
challenge. He thinks that he would like to give them again. He’ll give
one, and if we solve
it, he’ll give the other. See? It was a big dramatic business. The first
problem he gave
was: you’re given a parallelepiped, and the angles of the three faces,
in the corner, the
angles, the face angles, and the lengths of the three sides that make up
the parallelepiped.
I don’t remember whether it was a parallelepiped or a tetrahedral. It
was only a factor of
three. Problem: what’s the volume of the parallelepiped, in terms of
these things? So we
went home, and we worked for two or three weeks. We developed theorems.
We
worked together, developing theorems and methods and so on and gradually
worked out
a formula, the formula for the volume — which in fact is very beautiful.
Its square root
is beautifully symmetrical. It’s the square root of a complicated thing,
but it’s beautifully
symmetric, in the angles, alpha, beta, gamma, A, B, C. But our method
was very
unsymmetrical. We dropped perpendiculars, and we laid it out from one
particular side,
and did all kinds of things. Anyway, we worked it out, and we brought it
in, and he was
very impressed, and he gave us the other problem, which is to find the
formula between
— maybe he gave us both problems at the same time — to find the formula
relating the
dihedral angles in regular solids, to the number of the polygon and the
number of sides
of the polyhedron, or something. Then we worked that out too. As a
matter of fact, we
used much of the same theorems. And he was very impressed. Nobody had
ever solved
them before, and we had solved them. So that was a very exciting
challenge. They were
really good problems. They were good, substantial — I mean, it’s not
dishonest. For a
kid in high school, they were really excellent challenges. They were
very good challenges.
It’s not at all self-evident how to do it, and it was a real excitement
to gradually work it
out, to get closer and closer to working it out.
Weiner:
When you got the solution, which you now describe as beautiful in its
symmetry, did you
50
think of it in those terms?
Feynman:
Oh, I think so. Oh, yes, because, you see, I think we were delighted
with the answer. I
don’t remember.
Weiner:
Delighted with getting an answer —
Feynman:
— no. The answer. Because they were so kind of simple. I can’t remember
it now. I can
work it out much quicker now. In fact, I did it the other day, when I
was taking a
shower, because I thought of that old problem. It was — oh, it must have
been two or
three years ago, when I was taking a shower. But now that I’m an
advanced super-expert
at mathematics, suppose I had to do that problem. In my head, in fifteen
minutes, I
worked it out. But I can’t do it right now, in two minutes. It was
beautiful in the sense of
the symmetry, you see. The A, B, C, of the sides and the alpha, beta,
gamma of the
opposite angles. Actually it’s not symmetrical. And we probably checked,
because I was
wise in those days, that when one of the angles was zero, it gives zero,
and if two of the
sine’s, if all of the angles are right angles, it gives A, B, C, and
other things like that. It’s a
kind of beautiful thing to be able to do all these things, you know? It
looks symmetrical.
I’m pretty sure that we appreciated the formula. The other one, I never
appreciated as
much. I remember at the time I didn’t appreciate it, because it was
given in terms of the
number of sine’s on the polygon and the number of polygons that meet at
a point. And
there’s only five possible solids, so although it’s given in terms of M
and N, it’s not really
a general formula for any M and N, because the only values of M and N,
there are only
five of them, so you might as well have just worked out five angles, and
list them. See, if
hasn’t got the beauty of the other thing. I remember that definitely, at
the time. I didn’t
care for that problem because that was like asking for five angles, and
who cares?
Although it was expressed in terms of M and N, it looked quite general,
but there’s only
five cases allowed, so the whole thing was kind of an unbeautiful thing.
It wasn’t general.
What I mean, none of the angles for the cube and tetrahedron, and
there’s five or three
others, and it’s not very interesting.
Weiner:
So by this time you had developed some mathematical tests.
Feynman:
Apparently. What I’m telling you now is not what I feel now about the
problems. I
51
remember definitely not liking the second problem, and thinking the
first problem was a
wonderful problem, and the second problem was not so wonderful. Not that
it was
easier, but I had a taste, as you say, as to what I liked. Yeah. I
remember distinctly the
idea, I discussed it with my friend, that there’s only five numbers, and
what the hell,
there’s five angles, you might as well work out each one separately and
give the five
angles in a list and you’ve done the whole problem. It isn’t like an
abstract formula, in
terms of M and N.
Weiner:
By this time, here you are working out these problems, and it’s apparent
to you that you
have special ability in this area. Had you any thoughts on what you
might do with this,
whether you wanted to —
Feynman:
I knew I’d be a scientist somehow.
Weiner:
You knew. What was the earliest you —?
Feynman:
I don’t know. It was just sort of always that I wanted to do this, for
the rest of my life.
Weiner:
Scientist in the general sense of scientist, or did you have any
specific area that you —?
Feynman:
No, I had no idea particularly, because, you see, it was like this —
like my father would
come one day and tell me electrochemistry was the big and important
thing, and I would
have faith that I would be a great electrochemist. So I’d piddle around
with the wires,
with the salt, probably to find out what happened, and partly with the
daydream that
electrochemistry is the coming field. (It wasn’t.) But that
electrochemistry is the coming
field, and that I’m going to be prepared for the coming field-half. And
half the interest
was this business. So it was always that way. I mean, when he would tell
me something,
there was always the feeling that this was part of me. Like a little boy
wants to be a
fireman — his father’s a fireman. Although my father wasn’t a scientist.
No I guess it’s
not quite the same, but… Anyway, I can’t remember distinctly a day when
I ever said,
“By golly, you know what I think I’ll be?” I don’t remember anything
like that. Nor do I
52
remember, at that time, any consciousness that I ought to study this or
I ought to study
that in order to prepare myself for something. Whether there’s more
money in chemistry
than there is in physics, or any such question. It never was a question
how I would earn
my $5000 a year. Not that I was confident that I would, but I would
somehow or other
work at that. It was much more important to do the science, somehow,
than it was to
choose such a thing. That I’m clear on. I mean, I know, it was not in
high school career
minded, in the sense of thinking of, where’s the best opportunity? Not a
whit of it. I was
only interested in the stuff. When this man would give me this
challenge, it wasn’t
because I was going to find out if I’m good enough to be a something or
other. It was
because it was a challenge, for its own sake — completely, always, for
its own sake. It
was the excitement, the fun, of working this thing out. A certain
conceit, in showing off
that you can do it, showing to other people as well as to yourself.
Weiner:
And you associated mathematics with science. This was part of science,
as far as you’re
concerned.
Feynman:
Very definitely. Very definitely.
Weiner:
How did that come about, this association?
Feynman:
It came about this way. I had this laboratory, which. I told you about,
when I was in
grammar school, and by the time I was in high school I still had it, and
it was developing
further. And I would repair radios in the neighborhood, to make a little
money, to get
the money to buy junk for my laboratories. I had a photo-electric cell.
I made amplifiers
— not good ones. Nothing really worked well for me, but I struggled with
it. I had lab
banks and voltages and batteries and old radios and motors and so on.
Electrical stuff. It
had really developed from a chemistry laboratory to an electrical
laboratory. Now, in this
business, I had read in one of my friend’s (Bernie Walker’s) books, some
years back —
what year I can’t remember exactly — he had one of these, BOOK OF
KNOWLEDGE
or some book. But there were a number of other books that interested me.
It might be
interesting. One of the books that interested me very much was a book
called THE
BOY SCIENTIST, by A. Frederick Commons, and it had a big circle in
front,
“Knowledge is Power.” Then it had arches out which said, you know,
“chemistry,”
“Electricity.” I was very impressed with this whole business.
53
Weiner:
Was it a book from the library?
Feynman:
No, it was my own book somebody gave me. It had little experiments to do
and so on.
Then there was another book, THE BOY ELECTRICIAN that I got a hold of.
It wasn’t
as good.
Weiner:
Was this during the high school period?
Feynman:
Earlier. Anyway, my friend had a book, and in that book it had a formula
for the power
that a resistance takes, and also the resistance voltage relation. The
ohms are the volts
divided by the amperes. The volts are the amperes times the ohms. The
watts is the volts
times the amperes. The watts are the amperes squared times the ohms, and
so on. It has
eight formulas or something. And I looked at them. I remember very well,
this. I looked
at them and I said, “You know, I think that these are many of them,
really restatements
of the others. They’re not independent things.” And so I began to piddle
around to get
the connections, and of course I knew enough mathematics to understand a
little bit, but
I’d never — you see, you have to learn someday, and it’s not taught in
school, that you
can use X for the amps, you see. It’s not taught well — the connection
between
mathematics and the use of the letters for some quantities in physics. I
had to teach
myself that, and that these relations were only mathematically
interchangeable formulas.
You could derive one from the other. So I got interested in the relation
of the
mathematics to the physics. Then, much later, when I was in high school,
I found the
formula for the frequency of an oscillating circuit in some book that I
read. I was making
oscillators and radio receivers and stuff. And it said “2 pi times the
square root of LC.” I
remember this distinctly. And where did the “pi” come from? You see, I
had been taught
that pi was a golden circle. And here’s a pi! Frequencies. See, the
watts is the volts times
the amps, that’s a childishly simple formula. But the frequency — 2 pi
times the square
of LC — that bothered me. Where does the pi come from? And I worried
about it. Then
one day I realized that of course, the coils, the inductances, the
coil’s a circle. That’s
where the pi comes from. That’s where to find it. Then, later, when I
was looking at the
formula for the inductance of a coil, one day, later, I found a pi in
that. They had a list
from some handbook — inductances of square coils, inductances of round
coils. My
mind got to work again. The inductances had nothing to do with the shape
of the coils.
A square coil could have an inductance too. Whatever the inductance is,
the pi still
comes. It fascinated me, this pi, and the relation of mathematics to
physics, then. And so
I got more and more interested in mathematics, but always with some
relation to physics.
54
As far as I can tell, I still don’t understand that pi! That beautiful
pi — having to do with
the relation of the slope of a sine wave and how long it takes to come
back.
Weiner:
This ties in with what you said earlier about the — always trying to
find an illustration of
the mathematical formulation that you worked out; that really is the
relationship of
mathematics to physics.
Feynman:
Yeah, I’m always interested in the relationship, the practical business
— that the thing
does not mean anything really unless there’s some way to make something
go.
Weiner:
It’s of a piece, then, the mathematics and the science.
Feynman:
Yes. Yes.
Weiner:
We’re resuming now after a brief break for lunch. When we left off, we
were in the high
school period, Far Rockaway High School, discussing the mathematical
learning there
and some of the developments in your own thinking on that. Let’s get on,
now, to some
of the science courses, and take it from there.
Feynman:
Well, the first science course I took I think was general science,
meaning biology mostly.
Or maybe it was called biology, I don’t remember. I don’t remember much
of that, or
finding it particularly exciting. I remember only some experiments in
which egg white
was dissolved in stomach enzymes, or whatever it was. It was
interesting, because it
always looked to me like egg white would never dissolve in anything, and
to see it
dissolve was interesting. But really it was not very interesting. The
osmosis was an
interesting process, the explanation of it in terms of the atoms, but
the biology itself was
not very interesting. That wasn’t because I wasn’t interested in living
things, because my
father had very much interested me in plants and animals and so on, and
processes and
life. But somehow the course never did anything. I don’t remember much
of it, so I
might as well cancel it out. Then I took chemistry and physics, and in
those courses I
learned a little bit. But I knew a considerable amount, so I didn’t
learn much directly in
55
the course, in the normal fashion. But we had several things. We had, of
course, clubs —
Chemistry Club and Math Club and Physics Club and so on, where the kids
would stay
after school who were interested in these things, and work up
demonstrations of
something, and we’d give a little lecture to the other kids. It was
always pretty good. It
was good practice, I realize, now that I’m thinking about it. I made, I
forget what,
phosphine or phosgene — whichever is the one that isn’t a poisonous gas.
Weiner:
Phosphine?
Feynman:
Phosphine, I guess, and it explodes and burns when it comes out into the
air, and makes
smoke rings and flame — a flame and a smoke ring — and I made that, for
a
demonstration. I’m just remembering now. A friend of mine, another
friend I haven’t
mentioned, who was a year older than I was, named Elmer Heller, I
remember, in the
Physics Club gave a demonstration of the properties of sand, which I
remember very
well. It was a beautiful lecture—that at the angle of repose, if you
make the same angle;
by making such piles and looking at them, projecting one against the
other, you see it’s
the same angle; that if you had sand in a bulb, a rubber balloon, with
water, and
squeezed it, the water would go down, not up. You can squeeze the
balloon and the
water goes down, because you disorganize the pattern of the sand in the
water. It’s
sucked into the holes between the grains. A very nice lecture. This is
the kind of thing
that we would do in these clubs, and the way you’d learn something,
either from the
other fellow, about sand in this case, or yourself in preparing a
lecture. And they were
pretty good, I think, some of them. So that I did. In addition, there
was a special class,
with a teacher, Mr. Bater, in the physics class, who noticed that I was
somehow unusual,
and he said to me one day, when we were discussing index of refraction,
and after class
he called me aside and said, “Listen, you make too much noise in the
class. You make a
lot of trouble.” I was feeling bad, and he said, “But I know why. It’s
because it’s all so
boring and uninteresting to you.” You see, what would happen in the
class is something
like this. The fellow would start to explain something. He says,
“Because the light is bent
toward, away from the normal, as it goes into the glass.” So the teacher
said, “What?”
And the guy would say, “It’s bent toward the normal.” I mean, it’s just
a silly game of
trying to remember the rules. It was a boring business. Anyway, the
teacher said, “I’ll
give you a book to read. You go up in the back of the room, in the
corner, and you read
it by yourself.”
Weiner:
During class times?
56
Feynman:
Yes, during class time. “Pay no more attention to the class. When you
know everything
that’s in that book, you can talk again.” The class didn’t fill the
room, so way up in the
back was separated. So I sat up there. He’d given me a book called
ADVANCED
CALCULUS, by Wood or Woods. It’s not what they call advanced calculus
today, it was
more what we call mathematical methods, Fourier transforms and elliptic
functions, that
kind of stuff — gamma functions and so on. And that was very
interesting. I worked
very hard on that, and learned a great deal of mathematics in high
school, of an advanced
kind. I had to learn calculus in the meantime by myself. I forgot to
tell you the details. I’d
gotten a calculus book and read it and didn’t understand it. Then later
I got another
calculus book. My father and I went to Macy’s and he bought me a book,
CALCULUS
MADE EASY, and I took it home and studied it and wrote a notebook which
I still
have, and can give you, of this book, that tells me the stuff in it.
That was a way to try to
get it into my head this time, instead of forgetting it. So I had
learned calculus.
Weiner:
When did you learn calculus?
Feynman:
Well, it must have been before the physics.
Weiner:
It was in the high school period?
Feynman:
Yes, but the physics was in the junior year, probably. I don’t remember
whether I
learned this advanced calculus in senior or junior year. If I could find
my record and find
out — I have it here, high school — then I could find out what year we
did all these
things. It’s easy to figure out. Anyway, I learned advanced calculus,
what was called
advanced calculus, the determinants, Fourier series and so on. I already
knew something
about Fourier series from the ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA. I struggled with
every article in the encyclopedia that was scientific. I could
understand everything except
the article on gyroscopes and the article on group theory. I remember,
because I know
my challenges that were unsatisfied. The article on electrostatics gave
me great difficulty,
but by taking a notebook for yourself of what this is all about, and go
through very
slowly. I went through electrostatics several times, each time getting a
little further, until
I really understood it. But I don’t know if I have that old notebook.
57
Weiner:
Was that before the physics class?
Feynman:
None of this — I can’t remember. The physics class was essentially
irrelevant. It was
something that was in the — but the knowledge in the physics class
itself was nil, for me.
However, this teacher, Bater, also taught me something else. One day he
told me he was
going to tell me something very interesting, and he explained to me the
principle of least
action, in mechanics — that there was a number, the kinetic energy minus
the potential
energy, which, when averaged over the path, was least for the true path.
This is
philosophically a delightful thing. It’s a different kind of way of
expressing the laws, as
you appreciate them. Instead of differential equations, it tells the
property of the whole
path. And this fascinated me. That was one of the greatest things ever.
The rest of my
life I’ve played with action, one way or another, in all my work. I
mean, I find that I’ve
loved that junk. I like it. But, I’d found also in the encyclopedia —
you see, after that I’d
found also in the ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA a statement that the laws of
electricity are such that the potential is distributed so as to make the
integral of energy a
minimum. And I had proved — it wasn’t in the book — I had proved from
the formula
that in fact you would get the differential equation of electricity from
that. It wasn’t
there. It was stated, but it wasn’t there. See, I was really learning. I
was getting pretty
good. I mean, not to be immodest, but relatively, I was getting more and
more mature. I
was learning rapidly in the normal order, from a childish fiddling with
arithmetic, on and
on to really doing real things, at a high level already in high school.
Weiner:
Then the advantage was the extracurricular work that Bater assigned.
Feynman:
He didn’t assign. He just gave me a book to look at. You know, the real
problem — you
have to appreciate, really, all my time in these schools and around
there — was the lack
of supplies. Perhaps it was good, so that I had plenty of time to worry
about elementary
things before I was swamped by advanced things. I couldn’t get books.
The library had
no calculus book. When they got it, it was within a week or two, I’m
sure, that I took it
out—the first guy to take it out. The first calculus book that was in
town. I had a thirst,
you see. I couldn’t satisfy it. I’d heard about vector analysis, for
example, and I didn’t
know what it was. I looked in the encyclopedia, and there wasn’t enough
there. But I
knew it was something useful or important somehow. And Maskett, who by
this time
was getting his degree in mathematics at Columbia, wrote a thesis on
vector analysis. He
lent me a copy of his thesis on some subject in vector analysis, and I
copied out of this
thing another notebook for myself, on vector analysis, and learned,
vector analysis from
58
that thesis. There was one part of the thesis that was some complicated
business of
transforming coordinate systems, that I didn’t think was very important
and left out. So
when Maskett got his thesis back and asked what I thought of it -– “It
was very good,
and thank you very much, but the stuff about the transforming
coordinates I didn’t pay
much attention to.” He said, “That’s what the thesis about. The rest was
the
introduction.” But I somehow had always had a wit about what was the
central and what
was the peripheral matter — what are the complicated details that really
are not
necessary and not useful, and what were the great ideas on each subject.
So when I read
Maskett’s thesis, I paid no attention to his reciprocal coordinate
systems, which was
interesting, but more advanced and not very vital, which he had
contributed; whereas the
description of vector analysis which was in there, I knew that was
worthwhile.
Weiner:
You say you’ve always had this feeling about it. When was the earliest
that you can recall?
Feynman:
That was a good example. Later, when I was at MIT, I would read books on
fields that I
didn’t know, like general relativity and so on — or even in the
encyclopedia, when I’d
pull stuff out of the article — I seemed to have a sense to pull, in
electrostatics, a lot of
stuff, but when it went to the calculation of the capacitance of an
elliptical condenser,
which was quite complicated, it didn’t bother me that I didn’t
understand it. I knew that
was not so interesting as the general theorems about the laws of the
inverse square, and,
you know. I had some way of knowing what was important and what was not.
The
courses themselves, in the physics and chemistry, I don’t remember being
very intrigued
by them. It was a little bit of work, like exercises, to do the things.
They were not
difficult, so I got very good grades. It just happens that yesterday I
was reading about
Einstein, who was an individual who didn’t like the educational system
and got through
without it, and I was thinking to myself, well, I went through the
educational system. He
talks about how it stifles the young because they’re so busy doing the
work for the
examinations and all that.
Weiner:
Are you talking about Martin Klein’s article in PHYSICS TODAY?
Feynman:
I don’t know, maybe I am. Yes, probably. I was thinking — you know, you
always think,
what about yourself? You know — I think that the answer in my particular
case, that it is
really also true, that the thing is stifling, but because of the
accidents, starting with my
father and so on, I had always been ahead enough that the labor of doing
the ritual for
the schools, working out, balancing the equation for potassium
permanganate, or
59
whatever you have to do, was relatively easy, so I could do it so easily
that it didn’t
disturb me, you see. I didn’t work at it really. I just did it, you see.
It was easy enough.
And then I had time to play at a much higher level. I was always like
that, through the
rest of education, because you can see, learning advanced calculus in
high school, and
calculus, and so later when I got to college it’s exactly the same
situation. I’m always
ahead, so that I don’t learn too much in the courses, and I found it
relatively easy to
satisfy all the necessary requirements as I go along, without it being
labor, without it
being hard work that would take up a lot of my time. It was relatively
easy. Then I had
plenty of time to do other things.
Weiner:
You mentioned the physics and chemistry courses. Was it a year of each
that you had?
Feynman:
I think it was, yes.
Weiner:
Did you have any contact again with Mr. Johnson and Mr. LeSeur?
Feynman:
Mr. Johnson was my chemistry teacher.
Weiner:
So you did see him again in that capacity. Your prior experience in the
laboratory must
have been helpful there.
Feynman:
Oh, sure it was, but it’s helpful for a relatively trivial job. I mean,
the classes, the courses,
were nothing. They were just dopey. I mean, they were so simple. And it
was always so
slow, because everybody was such clunks about it that they would try to
remember the
laws, and if the guy would say, “What did you say?” then they would
change it the other
way, because they realized they were on the wrong track, not because
they understood a
thing. You know. It was a rather pitiful business altogether.
Weiner:
Getting back to Mr. Bater, and the least action principle, he explained
it to you? Or did
60
he give you some other things to follow up on? Did he discuss it
subsequently?
Feynman:
No. He just explained it to me once.
Weiner:
Did he give you any references to it, for reading?
Feynman:
No. I still remember — you know, a thing like that — whenever a thing is
exciting —
it’s a funny thing, in the mind — you remember all the subsidiary things
that have got
nothing to do with it. Like, I know exactly where the blackboard was, in
what well — it
was in the laboratory — where he was standing, and where I was standing,
and
everything, while he was telling me this. It was after class, in the
laboratory, in the room
where the lab was.
Weiner:
It was his idea, to bring this up?
Feynman:
I can’t remember how it was brought up, but he told me about this thing,
and explained
it, by drawing curves on the blackboard of the motion of the particle,
and showing the
two different curves, and the one that gives the least number is the
right one. He just
explained. He didn’t prove anything, as far as I remember. I don’t
remember any
complicated matter. No, he just explained that there is such a
principle.
Weiner:
And your reaction to it was on reflection later?
Feynman:
Oh, I think I reacted right then and there, that this was a rather
miraculous and
marvelous thing — see, to express the laws in such an unusual fashion.
Weiner:
When was the next time that you dealt with it, when you had an
opportunity to reflect
61
on it again and use it?
Feynman:
That I can’t say. I remember that there was a statement of the minimum
principle of
electrostatics in the encyclopedia, and that I worked it out. Now, there
was also, in the
book on ADVANCED CALCULUS, a section on how to do minimum problems, so
probably I realized that was very important, because it had to do with
the least action —
now that I’m thinking about it. For all I know, it may have been the
other way. I mean I
may have been looking at the section on minimum principles and said to
Bater, “What
the devil is this good for? I mean, you find the size of a circle — the
circle’s the shortest
distance to carry a certain area? Or what?” I’m only imagining. Maybe. I
don’t know
which came first, the chicken or the egg, but I do remember a connection
between the
theory of what they called the [inaudible] equations, or how to find the
minimum curve
for certain minimum problems, and the least action. I can’t really
analyze bits and pieces.
It seems to me all the way through this thing, it isn’t the question of
learning anything
precisely, like the minimum principle, but of learning that there’s
something exciting
over there. So the next time, when you look at another book, and you see
some partial
recognition that this has got something to do with that — this minimum
principle, I
know it’s got the figures in it, this has got to be good, this must be
useful in mechanics,
that’s an interesting bit — I pay attention, see. And that is the key.
The key was
somehow to know what was important and what was not important, what was
exciting,
else I can’t learn anything. And by having clues — you know, from
somewhere — that
what’s good… I think that the same thing happened with my father. My
father never
really knew anything in detail, but would tell me what’s interesting
about the world, and
where, if you look, you’ll find still more interests, so that later I’d
say, “Well, this is going
to be good, I know — this has got something to do with this, which is
hot stuff” — you
know? Like, nobody knows how birds migrate, so this is something about
birds’
migration, so it’s a real mystery, see. Because I know nobody knows how
birds migrate,
and they’re still struggling with it. This kind of feeling of what was
important. Or
interesting.
Weiner:
Interesting because it’s a challenge, and leads to —
Feynman:
Yeah. Yeah.
Weiner:
What else on the high school? If nothing else —
62
Feynman:
The only thing, the other thing I can remember, now that we’re thinking
about it, is that
there was from time to time something like, “We should have a science
assembly,” in
which we’d try to explain to the other children and make demonstrations
of how good
the science is. You would think that I would have been the one to be the
leader in this,
but I remember, although I tried setting up some experiments and
fiddling around, I’d
always end up not doing anything for the rest of society, so to speak,
except in the clubs.
But I remember setting up and worrying about something, but not really
entering. See, if
we had had — (we hadn’t) — things like science fairs and so on, in those
days, I doubt
that I would have been a big thing at a science fair. In fact, there
were a few, I remember
now, visiting science fairs from somewhere — students doing science
things. I didn’t
find it interesting to make a thing to take to some children’s science
demonstration or
something, although I would visit them. I remember in particular right
now visiting a
science fair, going around and seeing a boy who had made alum crystals,
beautiful
octahedral, and had a big demonstration of it. Then I looked carefully
at the octahedral,
and there was something funny about the lines, the edge lines. They
didn’t fit with
pattern of the direction of the crystal. I looked very closely, and I
realized that it was
painted wood. So I said to the boy, “Is this yours?” He said, “Yeah.” I
said, “But that’s
just painted wood.” “Yeah, I know,” he said, “but it looks good, makes a
good
demonstration.” I was horrified. I was very much of an idealist and a
purist and so on. I
thought this was so scientific, anti-scientific — it was an evil thing,
you know. It
bothered the heck out of me. That’s not why I wouldn’t enter into those
things, but this
was an after — I just remember this. I did have a feeling of great
respect for science, a
love of it, and when somebody would fiddle with it like that, it hurt
me. I was hurt by
this, because he was trying to fool people.
Weiner:
You thought he should have grown the crystals.
Feynman:
If he didn’t, he didn’t — if he’d grown small crystals, then these were
nice, this is the
way it is. You see, the question is “What is it?” not “How wonderful is
it!” You don’t
have to build it up. You don’t have to fake it. It’s great the way it
is, is the sort of feeling.
This is some kind of falseness, a terrible falseness. It just bothered
me. But I just
remember that when I’m thinking of — that they did have fairs, because I
did see this
there. I didn’t enter into that kind of thing. I didn’t make
demonstrations for other
students to watch, except in my own little club. And I didn’t have any
feeling that I
should enter into some fairs and things like that.
Weiner:
63
What about external influence? By this I mean journals. Did you start
reading any of the
literature in the field?
Feynman:
No, no. Oh, no.
Weiner:
Were there any available, any such magazines available in school?
Feynman:
I don’t think there were, but I don’t think — no. I couldn’t read that.
No.
Weiner:
How about popular accounts?
Feynman:
Oh. There was a year — way back when I was at Cedarhurst, I used to read
science
fiction, which, because of my love of science, I found interesting. As
time went on, I got
very upset with it, because often it was, anything could happen, and it
got more and
more ridiculous and so on. But every once in a while there would be an
idea that was
scientifically interesting in one of the things. But I gradually stopped
that. I used to read
them a lot, and then I gradually stopped.
Weiner:
Stopped when?
Feynman:
I don’t remember
Weiner:
It was past high school?
Feynman:
In high school, somewhere, I probably stopped.
64
Weiner:
So, magazines, SCIENTIFIC MONTHLY, things of this kind?
Feynman:
No. I didn’t have SCIENTIFIC MONTHLY. I don’t know why. I never saw it.
Oh,
what I did do — when, I don’t know — yes, in high school and probably
earlier — was
to cut out of the newspaper things that had to do with science. And one
of the things
was a thing called “Explore Your Mind,” which was a sort of a silly
thing. They would
ask questions, and make some — about why, something, and then it would
explain. Any
articles on science. I still remember an article, “Scientists Meet, Find
Atom is a Wave,”
and there was a picture of a diffraction pattern or something from gold.
But I thought
the wave was the circles of the diffraction pattern. You know — and
didn’t understand
— but I was interested enough in science that I kept a newspaper
scrapbook of science
articles.
Weiner:
Whatever happened to that, do you know?
Feynman:
No, I don’t know. No.
Weiner:
It would be interesting.
Feynman:
Yes. It possibly exists somewhere.
Weiner:
When you mention here the books, as far as reading goes, there were just
a few
instances, the Wood’s ADVANCED CALCULUS and the encyclopedia.
Feynman:
And the vector analysis from Maskett.
65
Weiner:
The thesis, though —
Feynman:
That’s his thesis. No, just the one book on calculus. Then I had to buy
one. It came to
the library, but I bought one.
Weiner:
So there’s no consistent poring through scientific libraries.
Feynman:
No, no. There was nowhere to find it. That I knew of. I think it’s just
as well. I mean, I
suspect — I know now — this has nothing to do with my history, but I
suspect, I kind
of try to imagine what would have happened to me if I’d lived in today’s
era. I’m rather
horrified. I think there are too many books, that the mind gets boggled.
If I got
interested, I would have so many things to look at, I would go crazy.
It’s too easy.
Maybe. Maybe not. Maybe this is just an old fashioned point of view. You
know. There’s
always these things. But it does bother me a little bit that there’s so
many things, and it’s
so easy, and they’re watering down. The thing that I loved was,
everything that I read
was serious, was absolutely — wasn’t written for a child. I have never
read anything that
was written for a child except THE BOY SCIENTIST book, which was pretty
good.
But the things written for children, after a certain stage, by let’s say
high school stage or
even the late, late era in grammar school — things written for a child
were not good.
Very rarely, things written for a child — there were books on the cave
man, you know?
Cave men living, and people who lived on trees, and there was a book
with a series of
families in different circumstances that I found interesting. That was
obvious for
children. But later on, children’s things — I didn’t like children’s
things. Because, for one
thing I was very very — (and still am) — sensitive and very worried
about was that the
thing to be dead honest; that it isn’t fixed up so it looks easy. It
isn’t fixed up and partly
faked so that the explanation can be made more simply — for the child,
you know?
Details purposely left out, or slightly erroneous explanations, in order
to get away with it.
This was intolerable. So I ultimately had only to trust the completely
mature and odd old
things, even though I was only in high school. I think most kids in high
school are very
mature. Because I know my friends who were in literature — you know, who
wrote —
and my friends who wrote plays, and they would read the great plays.
They wouldn’t read
the children’s plays, you know. It’s the same thing. Anybody that’s any
good in high
school already knows that they had to look at the real stuff.
Weiner:
66
What about other friends in high school? We’ve dwelt on the ones that
shared your
scientific interests. What about your wider social circle and your
social life, and your
other than school life? Let’s get that.
Feynman:
Well, first, from the school I had in high school, — earlier, I don’t
know, there were just
neighborhood kids, but in high school, I gradually became a member of a
group of about
four or five guys. All friends, good friends. We used to walk around
together in the street
and talk about things, you know — or go for long walks and do things
together, and so
on. Good friends. And it was a limited group, approximately four or
five. It was me,
another fellow interested in science whose name was Stapler, who is very
good, but (I
think) because of his mother’s interest and influence, he was driven out
and wasn’t able
to continue. I was lucky. That was the only other science guy. A fellow
named Harold
Guest was interested in writing plays. He now writes television things
for Playhouse 90
or something — Kraft Theater, I think. He’s OK. He got somewhere. Then
there was a
literary fellow, David Leff, who was editor of the school newspaper, who
was very
interested in writing, but not plays. I guess that’s it. There was also
this fellow Elmer
Heller, but he was a year older than I was, and the connection was not
as close as with
the other boys, although we would sometimes talk to him, go to his
parties and so on.
Now, we’ll talk about social life outside of the science business.
Weiner:
Girls?
Feynman:
Yes, girls. I didn’t have much contact with other fellows. Oh, just the
ordinary thing —
maybe you’d get mixed in a baseball game, that I couldn’t play, kind of
trying to dodge it
— but you know how it is in high school, you have cliques, and other
guys coming in
and out of the thing. We didn’t have any enemy or anything. It was not
very
complicated. But then, with the girls — Oh, there was another group of
older kids, older
people, whom I somehow got in contact with that took some sort of an
interest in me,
for no good reason that I know, and tried to develop my interest in
girls or something.
You know, they were older than I was. So there were parties among the
young and so
forth. There were dances. A dancing school teacher trying to make money
wanted to
have, on certain Friday evenings in her studio, dances, and she was a
friend of my
mother’s, and so my mother tried to talk the children into going, and so
on and so on.
Now, let’s see. I can tell you about my first date, but it’s a sort of a
silly business,
anybody’s first date. There were young kids around and I got the idea
that, you know, I
kind of liked one of the girls. I was with this older group, and one day
I mistakenly, at
the beach — oh, we met at the beach. We’d hang around with each other,
you know? I
said, “Gee, I’d like to take her out. Make a date.” Which I never even
thought I’d have
67
the courage to do — you know all this kind of thing. So they said, “Ah!”
So they
grabbed me by the hair, and they grabbed her, and they pushed us
together, and they
said, “Dick wants to ask you for a date.” Very difficult situation.
Anyway, we made it,
and I took her to the movies. My mother taught me, said I must step out
of the bus first
and help her out, and all this stuff, and I worried about: what am I
going to talk about? I
still remember what we talked about. It’s so silly, because, you know
this first experience.
She asked me if I played the piano, and I told her I had tried to learn,
and I used to take
lessons, for a little while. After I was older — after many long months
of this I could
only play something called “Dance of the Daisies,” or fairies or
something, and this
didn’t seem to me a very good thing, and so I didn’t do piano. This and
that, we talked
about. Later, as we were saying good-bye, she said, “Thank you for a
lovely evening.” I
was so impressed. I was so happy. Then I found out, on my second date,
that the girl
said, “Thank you for a lovely evening.” On my third date, when we were
saying good-
night, just at the door, I said to her, “Thank you for a lovely
evening,” and she got
paralyzed, unable to say anything, because that was what she was just
about to say. So I
quickly learned the formal from the truth, you see.
Weiner:
Two things occur to me here. Were you still in the house with the
cousins at this time?
Feynman:
No, no.
Weiner:
When did the change take place?
Feynman:
Approximately the second year of high school, we moved to an apartment
house that
was only a block or so away. I brought the laboratory with me.
Weiner:
Did you have difficulty fitting into your apartment with it?
Feynman:
Well, it was a tight squeeze, in a small room, but it was all right.
Weiner:
68
But you still saw the cousins and they were close by.
Feynman:
Yes. Yes — about the social more, huh?
Weiner:
Well, you mentioned the music, and that raises another question — what
other interests
did you get into, other than science, other than school?
Feynman:
Nothing. I was not interested in sports. I was not good at writing, or
making any
drawing, or clay — nothing.
Weiner:
You didn’t have much time for that, did you?
Feynman:
Oh, I may have had time, but I probably spent the time doing something
else. I didn’t
have any hobbies. My hobby was to do this science stuff. I didn’t do it
all the time. I
mean, I would run around the street with these guys and talk all the
time, and discuss the
world or something, or hang around the drugstore and drink sodas. I
don’t remember
what. But I didn’t have any other interests at the time that I was
pursuing at all, that I
can remember. Nothing. I would repair radios, but that was directly
connected to my
laboratory and my equipment. Everything was directly connected to it. I
did — I forgot
to tell you — repair radios, starting in that other house, and later in
the apartment house.
That must have been the second year of high school. It was in the
Depression, so people
couldn’t afford to have their radios repaired by the regular repair man.
It was discovered
that it was possible they would hire a silly — even as young a boy as I,
to repair their
sets. The first person who did was my aunt, who ran a hotel, a resort
hotel. She called me
up one day and said that her radio was out of commission. Well, she had
somebody else
call -– “This is such and such hotel, do you know something about
radios?” “Would you
come and repair our radio, please? It doesn’t work and stuff. I said,
“But I’m only a little
boy.” They said, “That’s all right, we understand from a good authority
that you know
something. Would you like to try to fix our radio?” I said, “Well, I’ll
try” — you know.
And I came. They still laugh about it, because the “boy” came — a little
boy, you know
— and had a big screwdriver sticking out of his pocket. I brought the
tools in my
pocket. I went to the radio. They had a man, a handy man, in the hotel,
who was a nice
fellow, and when I went to try and figure it out, I found out rather
quickly that the
69
switch wouldn’t work right, only because the knob slipped on the shaft.
When I went to
fix it, I could see it couldn’t work because the screw was broken or
something. But the
man, who was the handy man, after I pointed out what the trouble was,
fixed it up. You
see, he figured out a way to fix it that I might not have been able to
do. He helped me.
And so I was successful in the first repair job. Then, it was almost as
if — I had good
luck with things like this — it was almost as if a course was prepared.
The next person
who called me up, it was only the plug to plug in the wall had to be
fixed. You
understand? They got more and more complicated, in the right order.
Otherwise I might
have been horribly discouraged at the beginning, but by sheer luck, the
jobs, — I put up
a new antenna. Well, that just means climbing up to the roof. My mother
was horrified.
One day she’s coming home, she sees me climbing around on somebody’s
roof. I was
fixing the antenna. But gradually I got more and more difficult jobs,
because people
would hear, my mother’s friends and so on. And finally I got jobs that
were outside the
family. I had a job — my friend Bernie Walker and I were working for a
printer, and
another printer, whom we had to deliver something to, wanted to help me
out. He found
out I fixed radios, so he got me some jobs, and they were completely
people I didn’t
even know. I remember one of these particularly, just for amusement. The
man got me
this job. The fellow was to call for me in his car to take me to this
place. He was
obviously poor. The car was a wreck. We got into the car and he said,
“You’re only a
child, how can you expect to fix —?” All the time going, he’s all upset
by “only a child,”
you know, all the time going, talking about this. I felt bad, you know,
but I can’t do
anything about it. He’s yakking all the time and he tells me, he’s a guy
that fixes radios,
and so on. So finally we get to the place with the radio. I said,
“What’s the matter with
the set?” He said, “Oh, it makes a noise when you first turn it on, but
the noise stops
and everything’s all right.” I thought, “How can this fellow worry about
a mere noise
when he’s got no money?” So I got to the place, and there’s this radio.
I turn it on —
and the noise was so blood-curdling, such a terrifying racket, such a
terrible noise, that
you could see it was a noise! I mean, the guy wanted to get it fixed.
And then it would
quiet down and everything would play right. So I turned it on, I
listened to this, and I’d
turn it off, and then I’d start to walk back and forth, thinking. So he
says, “What are you
doing? Can you fix it?” I said, “I’m thinking.” This only made him make
another thing.
And I thought, you see. I figured out — how can there be a noise that
disappears?
Something is changing with time. So something is heating up before
something else. So I
guessed that the main amplifiers are heating up before the information
is coming from
the grids, from the earlier circuits, that it’s picking up some kind of
noise. So I figured, it
was probably due to the heating of the tubes, so if I reversed the order
of the tubes of
the same kind, maybe it would be all right. It would heat up the other
way around, you
know. So I just thought that. I went to the back of the set and I
changed the tubes
around and put them back, see. I turned it on. Just as quiet as you
please! This fellow —
you know, when a man is angry at you and thinks you can’t do something,
those are just
the guys that when you do something, they just love you. I mean, you’re
a god after —
you know? I mean, that’s the kind of person that if you do succeed,
they’re absolutely
the opposite. He went crazy. He recommended me to everybody. He said,
“This fellow’s
a genius! I never saw a man who repaired a radio first by thinking!” And
I went back and
70
I changed the tubes around, that’s all I did. I was very happy about
that, because that was
a great success of the mind, you know. I loved that. That was a big
success for me, to be
able to repair it, after all the things he had said. I love challenges.
I always have. In fact,
later hobbies at the beginning were not scientific but were always
challenges. Picking
locks, cracking codes, analyzing hieroglyphics that nobody knows how to
translate —
you see, they’re all the same now.
Weiner:
Talking about these jobs — any other kind of job, more conventional in
nature, in your
high school period?
Feynman:
Yeah, I had this job with a printer.
Weiner:
What did you do there?
Feynman:
Just odd things. Swept the floor, put what they called the furniture
away — that is the
sticks of type and so on — delivered the circulars that had been
printed.
Weiner:
Weekends?
Feynman:
No, afternoons. I tried to collect bills that were owed, and then I’d
take stuff that was
too hard for this job printer to the linotype printer, the guy I told
you about before, and
come back on my bicycle, about four miles, and so on. That kind of
stuff. Incidentally,
it’s amusing how I got the job there, because Bernie Walker, my friend,
and I decided
we’d got to get some work, you see. So we went around from store asking
if they had
any circulars to deliver, because those were the days when they would
advertise by hand
things that you would pass around. We would have some success, but not
too good. And
this fellow, Bernie Walker, who later went into business, you see — you
can see already
the disease, I mean the methods — he said, “Hey, I’ve got an idea. Why
do we go from
store to store asking if they’ve got any circulars to deliver? We’ll go
to the printer, who
makes the circulars, and we’ll ask him who he wants us to deliver his
order of circulars
to. We will do it for nothing. Then when we come in we’ll say, “We’re
delivering our
71
circulars from printer so and so. Do you need a boy to deliver them?” He
said, “That’s a
great idea.” I would never have thought of that. He had a businessman’s
mind, Mr.
Walker. So that’s what we did, and the printer was so impressed with our
ingenuity that
he said he needed a boy to take care of the place, and so he hired the
two of us,
alternately, to do this, you see. He was impressed by the cleverness of
this, Bernie’s idea.
Weiner:
Was this for spending money? I mean, this wasn’t —
Feynman:
Yes, I think so. There was also the attitude that you should do
something, work — you
know, the idea that to hang around and do nothing was somehow… There was
a feeling
of some sort of responsibility to earn money. I can’t explain it.
Weiner:
Well, it was also the Depression period. This would have emphasized it.
Feynman:
Yes. And also, to do some work like that, that’s good. I don’t know why,
but that was
the feeling — we should do it. I’m sure that if I didn’t, I would have
got the spending
money, because it wasn’t a lot of money, really. But the idea that you
should get a job
was somehow right. I don’t know (women’s tales) yeah…
Weiner:
When you were in high school, were you thinking about college? When did
you start
thinking about what the next step was going to be in your education?
Feynman:
I don’t know when I started to think about that. I must have thought
about it. I knew
that I was going to go to college. In this particular high school there
were two kinds of
courses, one called the commercial course, and one called, I don’t know,
the academic
course or something — I don’t remember — but anyway, one was supposed to
be for
college and the other wasn’t. There never was any question. I was not in
the commercial
course. It was my parents who knew I would go to college, and who in
fact were saving,
in spite of the Depression, as best they could, to make sure that I
could to go any college
I wanted, when the time came. So they were the ones.
72
Weiner:
Were you — (crosstalk)
Feynman:
The finances, no — although they had their problems, but the problems
were not
communicated to me. I was always guaranteed, you know, that — But I did
have a
feeling of responsibility to make whatever effort I could to help. But
there was no fear
that it wouldn’t go through. So I never really was deeply concerned. I
never had a
decision, (I can’t remember any) when I would go to college or
something.
Weiner:
But then at one point you had to make a decision, because you had to
apply.
Feynman:
Of course, because I had to apply. I then applied to the colleges. One I
applied to was
CCNY, I think, because of the financial thing, in case we couldn’t make
it. I applied to
Columbia. I applied to MIT. What else I applied to, I don’t remember.
Weiner:
Excuse me a minute. Did you have, at that time, the state Regents’
examination?
Feynman:
Yes, we did, on all the courses.
Weiner:
Do you remember how you did?
Feynman:
Yes, I have all the records, if you want.
Weiner:
How did you do? We’ll look at the records too.
Feynman:
73
In mathematics and science it was the absolute top, 99 percent, 100
percent sometimes,
or 90, very close. In the other subjects, in the neighborhood of 80
something. I did
better in the Regents’ than I did in the courses themselves. You know, I
was always able,
if I had pressure enough, to work very hard and temporarily absorb
enough information,
say in German, to make a passing grade, and then forget the whole damn
thing.
Weiner:
Cramming?
Feynman:
Cramming, yeah.
Weiner:
Then, with decent Regents’ scores and these applications —
Feynman:
Fairly decent. Only fair. But good in the math and science.
Weiner:
You applied to these different institutions. At that time, did you know
what curriculum
you would choose, if you were accepted?
Feynman:
I thought I would go into mathematics, I think. I did, in fact, when I
got to MIT, so I
don’t know exactly what I thought on that, but that’s what I did.
Weiner:
Were you accepted at the other schools too?
Feynman:
I don’t remember about CCNY. I was not accepted at Columbia. They said
“No” They
have an examination also, which I took, and lost fifteen bucks. You have
to pay, apply,
and take the exam. I remember the fifteen bucks. But I flunked -–
somehow — I didn’t
get in. At MIT they had a few scholarships, which I applied for and
didn’t get. I just got
in the regular way. I think maybe I did get a small scholarship; I’m not
sure, but not the
74
big scholarship that I had hoped for.
Weiner:
Were there any examinations for this?
Feynman:
No, there weren’t examinations.
Weiner:
Based on existing records.
Feynman:
Yes.
Weiner:
How about College Entrance Examination, Boards?
Feynman:
There was no such thing, as far as I remember. There was only this exam
at Columbia.
Weiner:
I think these existed perhaps earlier, but they weren’t universal.
Feynman:
Maybe. Yeah. One thing, just to put into the record, which I didn’t
like, at the time,
about MIT, was that they required a recommendation from a former student
of MIT. I
didn’t know any former student at MIT. So I went to this man’s office.
The man talked
to me for ten minutes, and then wrote, “This guy’s a good man.” I think
that’s all evil,
that’s all wrong, because it’s dishonest. I was a very honest sort of
scientific — if I want
anything — it’s true, you know. And that the school would request such a
thing, and I
had to go through this falseness — it bothered me. I remember it. I just
put that in. That
one thing I didn’t like about applying to that school.
Weiner:
75
Why MIT?
Feynman:
It was supposed to be one of the best schools in science and technology.
Weiner:
How did you learn that, that it was supposed to be?
Feynman:
I don’t know. My father probably knew that. My father probably thought
that — you
see, because I think my father and mother discussed it. MIT was more
expensive than
the local schools, I think. This I’m imagining, because I remember,
later, say, how the
two of them sat down and they tried to figure out how with the budget
they could send
me to the best school. They were great — you know? I mean, they were
right behind me.
Weiner:
Did you have any idea who was at MIT?
Feynman:
People? Oh, no. Just that it was a good school. I didn’t know in terms
of people.
Weiner:
So you graduated from high school in —
Feynman:
— 1935. Right.
Weiner:
And what did you do that summer? Was that any different from any other
summer?
Feynman:
That’s the summer I got the job in — was it? No. What the heck did I do
that summer?
No. I don’t remember.
76
Weiner:
What about other summers in high school?
Feynman:
I usually tried to work. I worked in my aunt’s hotel, a few summers. One
summer I was
ill. Oh, that was after, when I was at MIT. I was ill from the work at
MIT, apparently,
over — something, and the doctor insisted that I relax that summer, so I
stayed in bed
and drank malted milks, and would just go to the beach — I had a great
summer. But I
was ill. I had gotten ill.
Weiner:
After your freshman year?
Feynman:
Yes, the freshman year. But that takes us ahead. You asked about social
matters, and
there are a lot of social matters to be discussed yet. Girls. We really
didn’t get to it.
Weiner:
In high school.
Feynman:
Yes. I don’t know if you want to get into it now, or continue in this
direction? I thought
I’d remind you, before we get into the first year of college, that you
left something out.
Weiner:
Yes, let’s go back then.
Feynman:
All right. Since I had been a sissy and so on, I was a little bit
worried about this
relationship with girls. There were some other social things that were
very good. There
was a Jewish Center in town that got the idea to make a junior something
— I don’t
know what you call it, a “junior league” or something — which was built
to make the
young kids of the high school happy. It was an organization that was
supposed to be run
by them. It had its own president and so on, but they would use the
buildings that were
associated with the Jewish Temple. And it was really, now that I think
of it, quite a
wonderful effort. They had teachers to come to help, and we were divided
into units, like
77
there was a dramatic unit, an art unit, a writer’s unit where the people
who liked to write,
like my friend who liked to write, would get together, and they would
tell the story that
they would write, and then the next week some other guy would write a
story and tell it,
you know. They’d discuss it. And in the art unit — which I joined, for a
reason which I
will explain in a minute — we started by making plaster casts of heads,
of faces. You
know, you lie on the floor and put the plaster on and have straws out of
the nose and all
this kind of thing. And then we’d try to make artistic things, for which
I had no talent
whatsoever. The reason I joined the art unit was that I had met a very
beautiful and
wonderful girl who was very, very interested in art, and she was joining
the art unit. So, I
didn’t know her too well — I mean, as a matter of fact, I understood
that she was the
girl-friend of some other guy, and it was absolutely hopeless, because
they were
completely… But I joined anyway, you know, so I could be there, because
I was
dreaming of her. I don’t remember the order of events, but some way I
met her at a
party. I think the first time I met her was at a party at which somebody
was teaching us
how to neck and showing us how we should kiss a girl — the lips should
be at right
angles, and this kind of stuff. And then we sat and practiced with some
girl.
Weiner:
He demonstrated before the group?
Feynman:
Yes, with some girl. He was a little older than the others. Then we
would sit and we’d try
to neck. I had a girl I was practicing with. Then, just at this moment,
there was a little
excitement -– “Arlene is coming!” — and everybody gets excited. It was
the older group
I was with, you see. Everybody jumps up to great her. And I figure,
nobody is that
important — you know, this is not the way to behave — so I just kept on…
Weiner:
— practicing?
Feynman:
Practicing. She remembered it later, that she came in, and there was one
person in the
party she didn’t like because he was necking in the corner. Nobody else
was doing such a
terrible thing. Anyway, we started out on the wrong foot. But at another
party, where she
was — I had seen her, and then I was really impressed with this Arlene,
I understood
why everybody had jumped up. I was at another party where she was. For a
reason that I
don’t know, she sat on the arm of my chair. So there was hope. I was
excited as the
devil. She was with this older group, you know. She was in this junior
center, so that’s
why I joined the art group. There was no science group, there was
nothing like that in
this junior center, but it was social. There were dances. It was a good
thing to join, in
78
spite of the fact — And so therefore I got to know her, and then I got
to know her boy-
friend, who, it turned out, she broke up with, or it turned out she
wasn’t with him, and
gradually I got to know her better. I took her to the dance. I told you
that there was a
lady with a dancing school that my mother knew, so I took her to that
dance, and I
introduced her to my friends, and the playwright man, by the name of
Harold Gast,
came up to me to tell me very carefully that “that’s my girl” and he’s
“not interested,”
etc. I’ve since learned that that’s a dead signal to watch out, when
they protest too much.
Anyway, he was then my competitor, after that, after his assertion that
she was my girl
and he would not interfere — a thing which I had not even asked for. But
I learned. So
he was a kind of competitor. She would go with him, or with me, all the
time. When I
went to MIT, we wrote letters back and forth. But the day when I really
— I don’t know
what really convinced her, but one day that I realized that I was
getting ahead of Mr.
Gast was the day we graduated from high school. She was invited to our
graduation. We
were both graduating together. He had written a play. She sat between
our parents —
she was a very sensible girl. It happened that I won a lot of medals,
for best in physics,
best in chemistry, and best in mathematics. He wrote the play, but I was
getting called to
the platform every few minutes, you know -– “Now the prize for physics”
–- “Now the
prize for chemistry” — “for mathematics” — and so on. It was get up and
get down, get
up and get down, and because of a fluke — a fluke — when it came to
English, because
of the fluke that they had decided this thing on the Regents’ grade and
nothing else,
which was unfair, because it could be am accident from cramming or an
accident of the
system — I had been relatively poor in English and these fellows had
been very good.
And my two friends, the playwright and the writer for the newspaper,
neither of them
got honors in English because they did badly on the last Regents — and I
did! So this
was a freakish accident. I know why I did, because for one time in my
life I finally broke
down in the English. Everybody, I listen to them talk; they’re a kind of
baloney. They
don’t talk direct, in English class, and I’m always trying to talk
straight. In the
examination, in the Regents’ examination, they had things like, “Take a
book and make a
book review,” and I would take the simplest freshman book, TREASURE
ISLAND,
while my friends would try something like Sinclair Lewis’ book about the
stockyards or
something. Mine, though dull, was all right, so the dull teachers said
OK — but she had
objections to his interpretations of the social relations. You know, she
was much more
interested. But the real place where I faked it was, they gave us a list
of compositions
that we could write on different subjects, and for a change they had a
few scientific
subjects in there, one of which was “The Importance of Science in
Aviation.” To me this
seemed incredible, that the person who had made up the title was an ass,
because it was
so obvious. I mean, it’s such a dumb kind of a subject. But I figured
for once I’m going
to do what I see my friends do. So I wrote an article, in which I talked
about the
importance of science in the analysis of vortices, eddies, turbulence,
and swirling
motions of the air — all the same thing, you see. So I made these big
words and I
repeated myself, I did all that baloney and I got a very good — I think
that’s why I got a
good grade in the English quiz. I did it for the first time consciously,
because I thought it
was so silly, nobody knows anything, so it’s easy to write about these
things. Anyhow,
this seemed to have impressed my girl, but the thing that impressed her
most was the
79
following: My parents, my mother — I don’t know about whether my father
was there, I
can’t remember — and Mrs. Gast went together down the hallway afterwards
to talk to
the teachers, after graduation, and they met Mr. Ogsberry in the hall,
and he (my mother
said) — They said, “I’m Mrs. Gast and this is Mrs. Feynman.” He said,
“Oh, Mrs.
Feynman!” Just like that, you see. And then he makes her think, to try
to impress her,
what I had –- “Your son has something the state should support, and it
shouldn’t be
necessary…” Big deal. He made a great speech. He was very impressed by
his students.
And Mrs. Gast kept saying, “What about my boy Harold?” “Oh, Harold’s all
right, never
mind Harold — now listen, Mrs. Feynman —” What he was worried about was
that the
parent might not understand, and might say to the child he must get a
job or something.
See, he was worried, but he didn’t have to worry, because my parents
were aware of this.
My friend Stapler’s parents were not — his mother; his father was dead.
She was not that
kind. He had to go out to get money, because she needed money, and that
was the end
of him, really. So I was lucky. But anyway, this girl-friend, Arlene,
was standing there,
listening to all this, you see. And after that I had a little easier job
against Harold Gast.
Or at least I imagined that that was the reason. Anyway, I fell
gradually in love with this
girl, and it took me six years before we got engaged. I met her at
thirteen, when I was
thirteen. I was thirteen and a half, she was thirteen, something like
that, and we got
engaged six years later, and we were married another seven years later.
I knew her for
thirteen years before we got married. It was quite an unusually long
situation. We were
very much in love by that time. A most marvelous woman. We had a
terrific relationship.
Weiner:
You were married in 1940 — something?
Feynman:
1941 or 1942, yeah. Details we’ll put in when the time comes, if you
want. Then, when I
was at MIT — I’ve cut the end of the high school. Yeah, that was the
best girl, the most
important girl. There were a few dates here and there with other girls,
but this was the
most important one.
Weiner:
You won these awards. Were they honors or specific awards?
Feynman:
Well, like medals, you know. I think it was maybe the Exchange Club of
Far Rockaway
would give a chemistry medal, by giving the money for the medal. The
Bausch and
Lomb Optical Co. gave the medal for science, I think, and they probably
had a policy of
giving the medals to the high schools for science, to finance it. So I
remember, it was
Bausch and Lomb that gave that, because my father kept saying to me,
“Listen, you’ve
80
got to write them a letter and thank them for doing this. I’ll dictate
it to you: ‘Bausch and
Lomb: Gentlemen…’” So we had a kind of joke around the house, “Bausch
and Lomb:
Gentlemen.” I never wrote the letter, and he’d never dictate any
further. But I remember
that.
Weiner:
I think this is a fitting conclusion to the high school.
Richard Feynman interview transcript used with permission by Melanie
Jackson
Agency, LLC.
81NIELS BOHR LIBRARY & ARCHIVES / TRANSCRIPT
ONE PHYSICS ELLIPSE, COLLEGE PARK, MD 20740 • (301)-209-3177 •
NBL@AIP.ORG
Richard Feynman - Session II
March 5, 1966
Interviewed by: Charles Weiner
Location: Altadena, California
Transcript version date: December 18, 2024
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1063/nbla.eulm.vijp
1
Abstract:
Interview covers the development of several branches of theoretical
physics from the
1930s through the 1960s; the most extensive discussions deal with topics
in quantum
electrodynamics, nuclear physics as it relates to fission technology,
meson field theory,
superfluidity and other properties of liquid helium, beta decay and the
Universal Fermi
Interaction, with particular emphasis on Feynman's work in the
reformulation of
quantum electrodynamic field equations. Early life in Brooklyn, New
York; high school;
undergraduate studies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology; learning
the theory of
relativity and quantum mechanics on his own. To Princeton University
(John A.
Wheeler), 1939; serious preoccupation with problem of self-energy of
electron and other
problems of quantum field theory; work on uranium isotope separation;
Ph.D., 1942.
Atomic bomb project, Los Alamos (Hans Bethe, Niels Bohr, Enrico Fermi);
test
explosion at Alamagordo. After World War II teaches mathematical physics
at Cornell
University; fundamental ideas in quantum electrodynamics crystalize;
publishes "A
Space-Time View," 1948; Shelter Island Conference (Lamb shift); Poconos
Conferences;
relations with Julian Schwinger and Shin'ichiro Tomonaga; nature and
quality of
scientific education in Latin America; industry and science policies. To
California
Institute of Technology, 1951; problems associated with the nature of
superfluid helium;
work on the Lamb shift (Bethe, Michel Baranger); work on the law of beta
decay and
violation of parity (Murray Gell-Mann); biological studies; philosophy
of scientific
discovery; Geneva Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy;
masers (Robert
Hellwarth, Frank Lee Vernon, Jr.), 1957; Solvay Conference, 1961.
Appraisal of current
state of quantum electrodynamics; opinion of the National Academy of
Science; Nobel
Prize, 1965.
2
Usage Information and Disclaimer:
This transcript, or substantial portions thereof, may not be
redistributed by any means
except with the written permission of the American Institute of Physics.
AIP oral history transcripts are based on audio recordings, and the
interviewer and
interviewee have generally had the opportunity to review and edit a
transcript, such that
it may depart in places from the original conversation. If you have
questions about the
interview, or you wish to consult additional materials we may have that
are relevant to it,
please contact us at nbl@aip.org for further information.
Please bear in mind that this oral history was not intended as a
literary product and
therefore may not read as clearly as a more fully edited source. Also,
memories are not
fully reliable guides to past events. Statements made within the
interview represent a
subjective appreciation of events as perceived at the time of the
interview, and factual
statements should be corroborated by other sources whenever possible or
be clearly
cited as a recollection.
3
Weiner:
I’d like to get onto this business of being notified by MIT, preparing
to go there, and so
forth.
Feynman:
I don’t remember the exact notice about MIT, but there were a few
preliminary things
that happened. They had fraternities at MIT, and the fraternities were
looking for
students, so they had smokers, as they called them. Big deal, you know —
kids — where
you go to meet the fraternity boys, because they’re looking for good
pledges. At MIT
there are only two Jewish fraternities, and those were the only ones
that were interested.
I went to the two smokers. Or at least I remember one of the smokers.
And there, at
that smoker, they were very kind to the freshman; they wanted them to be
impressed
with the fraternities. It was the old upper classmen who lived around
New York who
would look for these New York boys going up, and the particular smoker
was for a
fraternity called Phi Beta Delta, which I later joined. They found I was
interested in
science, and two boys, one who was in the mathematics course and one was
in the
science course, Art Cohn and Eli Grossman, who were going back to be
seniors, started
to talk to me. Mr. Grossman asked me questions about mathematics, and
told me, after
asking, that I knew enough mathematics if I knew calculus, and it was
silly of me to take
the regular calculus course for the first year; and that it was
perfectly legitimate at MIT to
take examinations in a course — you don’t have to pass. So you could
take the
examinations in the math, and he would advise I take these examinations
for the first
year of math, and then I could start in the second year right away. So
that was the
important part of that.
Weiner:
Was this in the fall?
Feynman:
This was in the summer, before I went there.
Weiner:
In New York City?
Feynman:
4
Yes.
Weiner:
Oh, so they had their smoker in the city -–
Feynman:
Looking for the city boys going to MIT. They had smokers in other parts
of the county
for other members of the fraternity, you understand me? They were what
you’d call now
looking for pledges — what they’d call pledging, looking for good
pledges.
Weiner:
Rushing is the word, isn’t it?
Feynman:
Rushing. Exactly the word. So they were very pleasant to you, very nice.
He made this
suggestion, and I did do that. I took the two exams for the first and
second half year of
calculus. I had to study it a little bit ahead, at home. I remember this
particular thing,
because every problem I would do, I would get wrong. My father said,
“How are you
doing?” I said, “I get everything wrong.” “You’re not doing too —” I
said, “No, it’s OK,
it’s just little trivial mistakes, sine’s, just a question of getting in
practice a little bit.” But
when I got to it, I passed them both satisfactorily, so I could start in
the second year
math. I made a discovery, when I got to MIT and the second year math,
that if I’d had
enough wisdom, I could have also taken the examination in the second
year math.
Weiner:
Second year was what, advanced calculus?
Feynman:
Well, it was what they called differential equations and something else,
I can’t remember
— oh, integrating in three dimensions, volume integrals, and
differential equations. But I
was also quite capable at that, and didn’t realize it, you know, so I
hadn’t thought to take
that exam. So I was wasting time in the first year of mathematics at
MIT, which was the
second year math.
Weiner:
Did you live in a dorm there?
5
Feynman:
Then, when I got up, the other fraternity, SAM, Sigma Alpha Mu — those
boys also
came around. They were going to drive up, and they said, “Why don’t you
drive with us?
We’ll take you to MIT.” So I got in the car with those fellows. My
mother still
remembers the day her little boy left home — you know, cars and
strangers who were
going to drive him all the way to Boston — it was a big day! But to me
it was only a
great, happy excitement. We had quite an adventure in the car, because
it would snow,
and the car skidded, and it was a long trip and we talked about things.
I was treated like
more of a man, you know. It was a big deal. You were grown up. So we got
up there,
and I was staying at the SAM house, because they had driven me up and
they asked me
to stay at the house temporarily. And in the morning, when I woke up,
they were very
upset. They said, “Two men are here looking for you.” It was those two
boys from the
Phi B D house, and they took me to the other house. I guess I was a
little bit dumb. I
mean, I didn’t realize the trouble those fellows were having rushing me.
But I was
wanted by both houses, which was a pleasant feeling, because you
remember I had had
this sissy-ish feeling and so forth, but it disappeared at MIT because
of all this attention.
I went finally, anyway — after a lot of detail which I can’t remember —
I joined the Phi
D B house, where these two guys were, ultimately, and became a pledge
there. The day I
said I would be a pledge, everything changed, of course. Then I had to
carry matches for
the other guys, and the friendliness disappeared. Anyhow, I mentioned
the fraternities,
because I would like to say, about social matters, that the fraternity
was for me extremely
good. Phi B D had had a great difficulty, just previously, and had
almost disintegrated,
and they had built up a compromise. They had two groups of fellows in
the house, the
academic, studious type who knew something, and the wild social guys
with cars who
would zip around, and knew all about girls and so on. And they almost
broke apart,
because of the interests, differences in interests of these two. But
they had made a
compromise, which was that the wild Indian social fellows had to
maintain certain
grades, and if they didn’t they would get lessons from the other guys,
and they would
have to work a certain number of hours and not go out unless they got
such grades.
Whereas the other fellows — and this was an important thing — would have
to take a
date to every dance, would have to go out to the dances and do these
things. It was
important, you see, to them. And the other fellows if necessary would
get them dates, if
they couldn’t get them themselves. But they had to, you know. And this
was an
interesting environment for me. The same went, of course, for the
pledges. The pledges
had to make, earn, certain grades, which was easy for me, but also had
to get dates for
the dances. We had formal dances. We got dressed up in tuxedos. We had
to run around
and get dates.
Weiner:
Where did the dates come from?
6
Feynman:
Oh, the schools in the neighborhood, and friends, girlfriends of guys’
girls, guys who
already had girls — you know what I mean? Their sisters or somebody. I
was frightened
of girls when I went there. I remember when I had to deliver the mail.
I’m just trying to
tell you the differences. It’s interesting, how social attitudes
develop. When I had to
deliver the mail; to take the mail out from upstairs. It happened to be
a time when some
of the juniors had a few girlfriends, two girlfriends. There were just
sitting on the steps
talking, and I just didn’t know how the heck I was going to be able to
carry those letters
past them. Girls scared me. This whole business scared me. So that was
the condition of
it. I did get the letters through, and on the way they said, “Oh look,
isn’t he cute!” and all
this kind of stuff, which scared me and worried me, you know. Anyhow,
this same
fraternity had that the pledges had to learn how to dance, and so they
would get girls to
come, their girlfriends and friends of their girlfriends, to come on
certain days of the
week, and they’d turn on the records, and they taught their own pledges
how to dance.
This was a really impressive, important thing to me. I realize now, you
know, I got a
much better social confidence and everything else. And I know that that
fraternity was a
very important thing in my life. I know it — I mean, as far as social
things — because,
although it was hard to do, it forced me to do it. It’s easy to not do
it, it’s scary, and it’s
easy to not to do it, but they made sure I did it. They taught me to
dance. And so the
confidence came relatively rapidly after a while. My first date was a
blind date. But they
were careful not to make the guy embarrassed by having some harlot. They
were really
serious about it, so they got a pretty good girl for the first date,
whose name I remember
and so on. I can remember, just to tell you a joke, the first girl that
they cooked up for
me — I couldn’t get my own date, and they got me a girl called Pearl
something. So I
was from New York, so I said, “Oh, Poil. Poil.” They said, “No, you must
say Pearl,
because she’ll be horrified if you say Poil,” and so on. So I made
believe I couldn’t do it,
and I would say, “All right, stop me in the middle, I’ll go through the
thing,” you know.
“Pearl, Pearl, Pearl, Poil, Poil,” and they would hit me when it was
right, and I couldn’t
get it right. Then when I met the girl I said, “Listen, I understand
your name is Pearl.”
She said, “Yes.” I said, “You see, I say it very nicely — Pearl.” She
said, “Yes.” Then I
told her that they’d been worrying about how I was going to pronounce
it, “So if you
don’t mind, when I introduce you, I’ll do it” — peculiarly, you see. So
every guy, I would
say to him, “This is my goil, Poil. This is Poil so and so.” Of course
she knew I was
kidding, but they were horrified. Anyhow, it relaxed me a lot, all these
experiences. I
think it did a lot for me socially. In the meantime, my girl Arlene was
back at home, and
we were writing letters, probably every week.
Weiner:
Was she still in high school?
Feynman:
7
No, she was out of high school, I think. Maybe she was in high school
one more year.
But we wrote letters all during the MIT period, and later on at MIT I
had her up for
dances from time to time, to visit the school and have her for a dance
and so on. I went
out with other girls when she wasn’t around. But we were engaged
somewhere along the
way, and in spite of that I kept going out with other girls. It was
understood between us
that that was all right, because it was just impossible that any other
girl could mean
anything to me. I mean, it was just clear. Maybe naive, but it was true,
and it worked out
that way. She wasn’t upset by it. When school started, after I was there
a while, I took
courses, all of which I don’t remember in very much detail.
Weiner:
Were you majoring in mathematics?
Feynman:
Oh, yes. That’s interesting. At first I was in the mathematics course.
It doesn’t make any
difference what course you are in, really, very much. For the first year
or so you take
more or less the same thing. You take physics and chemistry and
electrical engineering,
mathematics, and so on. English. Somewhere around the first year I began
to get upset.
This wasn’t right. The mathematics, I looked at it, the mathematical
things, were too
abstract. They weren’t connected to anything, mathematics. And I went to
the head of
the mathematics department. This was in 1936, now, so you know it’s
still in the
Depression. I said to him, “Sir, what is the use of higher mathematics
besides teaching
more higher mathematics.” So he said, “Well, you could become an
actuary,” calculating
the insurance rates for an insurance company. This didn’t sit well with
me, see. He also
said that a man who asked that kind of a question is perhaps not right
for mathematics.
And I thought the thing I ought to do — I mean, I liked to get my hands
dirty. I’d had a
laboratory. The physical world was real, and the mathematics, I had
become enthralled
with, but not for itself, really — you know what I mean? It was
fascinating, but my real
heart was somewhere else. So I decided, I have to get my hands dirty, I
can’t stand these
abstract things. So I changed to electrical engineering, because there
was something that
was real. But then some few months later, I realized I’d gone too far,
and that
somewhere in between — that physics was the right place. So I moved
around a little bit
at the beginning, and ended up with the physics course.
Weiner:
Were you penalized in terms of courses?
Feynman:
No. No way at all.
8
Weiner:
All the courses —
Feynman:
Yeah, they were so close — yeah, they were all the same. No, there was
nothing. It was
just a question on the future. I had to worry about what I was going to
the next. When I
looked at the mathematics program, we would be talking about integrals
or something
and I didn’t see what the hell good it was. The only thing I could think
of was, this stuff
was good to teach somebody else, but it wasn’t good itself. I still have
that feel about
mathematics.
Weiner:
The physics course that you took, the first one — was it new to you, or
was it stuff that
you’d covered?
Feynman:
No, it wasn’t very new me. It was mechanics and it was a little bit
boring about inclined
planes and statics and dynamics. It was always the same. I always had
learned the stuff
before. There were a few things — because I can vaguely remember — that
were
interesting. One was the laboratory. I had not really used my laboratory
to make physical
measurements, you know, in the usual way. I used it to play around and
make a radio,
but I’d never used my laboratory in the sense of an experimental,
numerical research. So
the first experiment, which was dropping weights to see the acceleration
of gravity, was
only vaguely interesting. But the beautiful experiment, which I still
remember, in the lab,
was this. There was a ring. You know, other experiments — dropping with
the
apparatus, with spark caps, with wheels, with all kinds of things. There
was a hook on
the wall; I mean a nail driven into the wall, and a ring of metal, a
metallic ring, an amelus,
whatever you call it, like a big washer, a big thing. It said: “Hang on
the wall, measure the
period, calculate the period from the shape, and see if they agree.” I
loved that. I thought
that was the best doggoned thing. I didn’t care as much — I’m just
trying to remember
now — I liked the other experiments, but they involved the sparks and
all the other
hocus pocus, which was too easy. With all that equipment, you could
measure the
acceleration of gravity. But to think that physics is so good, not that
you can figure out
something carefully prepared, but something as natural as a lousy old
ring hanging off a
hook — it impressed me, that I had now the power to tell what something
as dumb as
that was going to do. It didn’t impress me so much that I had the power
to figure out
what would happen if I had lots of oscillators, I had the experiment
carefully prepared,
with all this equipment to measure just so — but that in a lousy ring
hanging from a
hook — that impressed me. So I liked the physics lab, a little bit,
because I hadn’t quite
9
done that kind of thing. I also remember late, a few years later, in
electricity, that we had
a rotating disk. We had to measure the ratio of units, of electrical and
magnetic units. We
had a rotating disk, Faraday’s rotating disk, with a magnetic field,
making a current, and
you measure the current, but charging a condenser to a certain voltage,
so and so many
times. Anyway, you measure the ratio. I remember I was working on it
with a friend
named Ted Welpin, who I’ll come back to, because I’m now in the
sophomore year, by
mistake. I have to go back. But anyhow, at that time, the teacher came
and said, “You
know what you’re doing?” I said, “Yeah, we’re measuring the speed of
light.”
Weiner:
Because, the ratio of units —
Feynman:
Yeah, yeah. And we knew it, and he was very happy, the teacher, John
Wolfe, you know,
that somebody knew what the heck it was. Because, you know, the whole
system is really
quite poor. I mean, you have a lot of wires to connect to buttons. You
have a piece of
paper that tells you what to measure next. And unless you know so much,
you can’t get
any pleasure out of it. I had to know, in order to get any pleasure out
of that ring, what
physics could and couldn’t do. I had to be very advanced to appreciate
that ring. I had to
be advanced enough to understand that it was marvelous, that we were
measuring the
speed of light by rotating a wheel at hand speed — that some miracle —
where these
high numbers come from, you know — it’s quite exciting, to do it in a
room that big.
And so on. So I feel that somehow education isn’t right — the
appreciation of it —
there’s no motivation. Motivations are not carefully handled. And the
motivation is the
whole — makes love, makes good out of it, I was motivated because I’d
had other
experience.
Weiner:
What about the other guys in the lab?
Feynman:
I don’t know, they just did all these things.
Weiner:
Well, a lot of them of course weren’t necessarily physics majors. Or
were you in a class
of physics majors at that time?
Feynman:
10
I don’t remember now. The sophomore year probably included a lot of
other people.
Weiner:
Other people from the engineering curriculum and so forth.
Feynman:
Right. All right — now we get back to the freshman year, or the
beginning of MIT. Was
it freshman or sophomore? Somewhere along the line, either the freshman
or
sophomore year, probably the sophomore year, after I had discovered that
I knew so
much math — because, you see, I had gotten ahead in the math. I had
extra time. So
then I would take another course ahead of time. So at the beginning of
sophomore year
— (if there’s anything in freshman year to come back to, I’ll try to
remember — I can’t
keep these things separate) — somewhere, I believe, in the sophomore
year — because,
you see I was ahead. I had time. Do you understand? So I had another
space to put
another course. Oh yes, I remember now. In my freshman year, my friends
were in the
senior year, my two friends at the fraternity, and I roomed with them.
They were
studying a course called mathematical physics, taught by Slater, an
advanced course.
There’s a book on it. It uses a text by Slater. Theoretical physics, I
think it was called. Big
deal. They’re studying this thing, and I’m sitting there, a dumb
freshman. So one day —
it was only a few weeks, a month or two — I hear them talking. They’re
worrying about
a problem they can’t do. So I know something, I say, “Hey, why don’t you
try Bernoulli’s
equation?” They don’t know what I’m talking about. See, I had read
everything in the
encyclopedia. I’d never talked to anybody. I had mispronounced
everything. Everything
was mispronounced, my notations were cockeyed. Finally we communicated:
“He means
Bernoulli’s equation — ha ha ha!” So they tried that equation and it
solved it very nicely.
So they talked with me, and they would discuss the problems after that.
We talked about
these problems. I couldn’t really do them all, naturally, I wasn’t that
good, but I did do
little bits and parts, and because they discussed it with me, I learned
a tremendous
amount. So I figured, in the sophomore year, I could take that course.
After all, I had
discussed with them the problem. I knew what the level was. I wasn’t
making a mistake.
I was getting confidence, you see. Whereas the first time I only took
one year, now I’d
decided to take the senior course in my sophomore year. MIT was free
enough that, if
you had the guts, you could do it. Well, I remember this — the first day
—
Weiner:
Did you have to get permission of the instructor?
Feynman:
I don’t remember. Some permission, probably. I remember the first day,
going into the
11
class, because I had to wear my ROTC uniform, which only first and
second year people
had to take, you see.
Weiner:
Compulsory?
Feynman:
Yes. And I had my uniform on. It was a dead giveaway. Besides, I looked
very young and
so on. These were all seniors, and I was a sophomore. I was quite —
partly worrisome,
but partly I was a little bit proud, you know? I mean, inside. Everybody
had these green
and brown cards to fill out, from senior and graduate students. There
were many
graduate students in this class; graduate students from other schools
would take this to
get, you know, practiced up. See? Good course. Top of the heap of
advanced physics.
And I had a pink card! It was all very — I was obvious. And I was
feeling pretty good.
I’d pull out my pink card. And there sitting next to me is another guy
in a uniform with a
pink card. His name was Ted Welpin. So there was somebody else in the
school who
though himself good enough to take this course. So we both started to
talk to each
other, happily, to discover the existence of another peculiar nut. And
right away he said
to me — I think the conversation started by my noticing that he had a
book on tensor
analysis. I said, “Oh, you’ve got a book by so and so on tensor
analysis. I was trying to
learn it. I wanted to get it at the library and couldn’t find it.” He
said, “Yeah, I’m
bringing it back. I’m trying to get another book that somebody’s got out
called such-and-
such on something” — and sure enough, it was a book that I had out. So
we really were
made for each other. And that was terribly exciting, because we then
would walk
together, you know, the first few days we met each other. And he had
learned relatively
theory quite — which way was it? No, I guess it was the other way. I
can’t remember
which way now. I’m probably remembering another time; I don’t remember
which way
it was. He had learned relativity theory and I had learned quantum
mechanics, or vice
versa. I think I had learned the relativity and he had learned the
quantum mechanics.
Weiner:
Where had you learned that?
Feynman:
At MIT, in the freshman year, reading the books in the library. I spent
time in the library
reading. I read Eddington’s book on relativity, and I learned a lot. I
think that’s right,
now. And he had learned quantum mechanics, which I hadn’t learned very
well. And so
we taught each other — very quickly, you know, in just weeks, back and
forth, and very
soon we were on the same level in all these fields, relativity, and
quantum mechanics.
Oh, we had lots of conversations. It was a terrific educational
experience, to have
12
somebody of your town type to argue back and forth, to learn. We were
matched. It was
great. I learned tremendous amounts from him, and vice versa. Together
we would work
things out — you know? But then we learned this course together also,
and the course
began with Lagrange’s equations and so on. Being always the practical
fellow, all I was
interested in was the problems. A ball rolls on an incline, something,
and I would work it
out directly. I didn’t have to learn the Lagrange. Next problem. I could
do it directly, I
didn’t have to learn the — I do it in five minutes; he takes thirty
minutes, grinding out
through the Lagrange, you see. My friend would always do it the other
way. As the
problem went on, they got harder and harder. About a ball, spinning
around in a
paraboloidal, you know? Then it would take me an hour, him half an hour.
But I did
avoid — I really learned the Lagrange very well, because I wanted to
make sure first that
it was necessary to solve something that was really worthwhile. I always
had this feeling
of judging the thing against its actual application use. That’s a very
amusing thing. I
realize it, now that you’re asking me all this, but I see the same
relation with him. I was
challenging the Lagrange to show me that it was necessary — you know? He
would do it
his way, I would do it my way, and we always compared times. But of
course, my way
would take ingenuity, whereas the trick of the Lagrange is that you can
do it blind. It’s
like analytic geometry compared to ordinary geometry. It’s slower, but
it’s blind, it’s sure
fire. Well, this was the same situation. I still think you can do it
better. But anyway, there
were one or two problems where I was behind, near the end. But it was
worth it. I was a
good experience. Then we learned other things together in this course. I
did learn things
from this course.
Weiner:
Slater was teaching this.
Feynman:
Yes. I did learn things. In spite of my having gone over it for the
second time, because I
had done it with those students. I hadn’t done it very thoroughly, just
bits and pieces.
But I did learn something from that course.
Weiner:
Was this a lecture course?
Feynman:
Lectures and problems. Lots of problems that we would have to do. This
was, you see,
for seniors and graduate students, and that was about the level on which
I could learn
something, when I was a sophomore.
13
Weiner:
Was he a good lecturer?
Feynman:
I think so. I don’t remember. I learned something from the course.
Weiner:
Did you talk with him after the lecture?
Feynman:
I don’t remember.
Weiner:
You don’t remember if he had a relationship with you —
Feynman:
No, I don’t remember. Not at that time. I didn’t. I had a relationship
with him later.
Weiner:
After you left MIT?
Feynman:
No. No, at MIT, but not in my sophomore year.
Weiner:
I see. That was a one semester course?
Feynman:
Yeah. Then, another thing happened, with both Welpin and I. A Professor
Philip Morse
discovered that we were good students. And in those days, quantum
mechanics was not
— there was not a good course in quantum mechanics at MIT. 1935, 1936,
1937, maybe,
by this time and there still wasn’t a good one. So there was no place
for us to learn. But
we realized we really wanted to learn it right. I mean, we had taught
each other bits and
14
pieces, but — the same thing, you must go over it thoroughly and do it
again. We asked
him where we could learn, what books would he recommend? He said, “I’ll
teach you.”
So once a week we would go into his room, into his own office, and he
would sit down
in his black — we would sit down in two chairs, and he would spend the
time to teach
us quantum mechanics, for an hour — maybe it was more — an hour at
least, a week.
Poor Welpin had some sort of a disease where he fell asleep. He was
unable to stay
awake. It’s not boredom, it’s some peculiarity — it’s so serious. No
matter how it was, if
he sat still, he’d fall asleep. At the time he didn’t know how to handle
it. He has since
found that if he stands up and walks around, it helps. And furthermore,
if he lets himself
fall asleep, it only lasts five minutes, and he wakes up. But still, it
was for him terribly
embarrassing, because Morse would make this effort, and there he would
be, asleep in
the chair. But anyhow —
Weiner:
— Morse was young at this time too, wasn’t he?
Feynman:
I guess so. It didn’t seem to us so young, but he was young. Professor
Morse then taught
us quantum mechanics. But not only that, he gave us a research project
in quantum
mechanics to work out, calculate the energy levels of the light atoms,
by a variational
method he had invented that was new. It was different. And he knew how
to teach. He
was great for us, because also, when we had results that were useful for
the astronomers
at Harvard, we made a visit to Harvard to discuss the atomic energy
levels with the
astronomers, and what information they needed, and what maybe we could
calculate for
them, like the intensities of lines and so on. It was very, very good.
Weiner:
Who were the astronomers, do you remember?
Feynman:
I don’t remember the name of the astronomer. I do remember, though —
amusingly
enough — as soon as I started to talk, everybody laughed at me. I mean,
they laughed at
me because — I mean, Morse — it was “hydro genic atoms” — like hydrogen
— that
was a word I needed, an atom which had one electron, like lithium, total
ionized, you
know? So I said, “Well — the kind of wave functions we were using were
like those of
hydrogen so I said, “Well, we start with hygienic wave functions,” and
so on. I was
always careless with the words and pronunciations, and they kind of
teased me a little bit
about that. It wasn’t very serious, but I remember that.
15
Weiner:
This was at the Harvard Observatory?
Feynman:
Yes. I said, “The way we’re doing this, we start with hygienic wave
functions, with
perimeters in which we varied to get a minimum energy.” We had done
these
calculations. We did also work on an adding machine. You see, we learned
a lot, Welpin
and I. A computing machine — an old-fashioned adding — not that —
Weiner:
— I see, I know what you mean.
Feynman:
We learned a lot. Morse really brought us —
Weiner:
— he wasn’t teaching you — it wasn’t really a course?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
It was just extracurricular —
Feynman:
— Right. Well, he made a lot of effort for us, see?
Weiner:
How did he come across you?
Feynman:
— I don’t know —
16
Weiner:
— you didn’t have him as a teacher?
Feynman:
No, I guess I didn’t. He came across us somehow. I guess we went in to
him, because we
knew he was one of the men who knew quantum mechanics. It was a little
backward. He
knew quantum mechanics well, and so on. We probably asked him where we
could get a
reference or something. I’m only guessing. I can’t remember. But he
volunteered to
teach us quantum mechanics. We had a course in atomic physics. There was
a regular
atomic physics course, which consisted in telling us that the square of
the angular
momentum was L plus L plus 1, and this and that — you know, the R levels
and so on
— which I don’t think we learned much, but it was mostly that stuff. But
this quantum
mechanics that he taught us, we did learn a great deal.
Weiner:
This was about the time of your junior year?
Feynman:
Probably, yes, that he started us. Now, a thing happened there, between
the two of us, in
which Welpin taught me something of first rate importance. It was very
important, what
Welpin taught me. I had, fooling around with relativity and quantum
mechanics, cooked
up an equation which I claimed but the relativistic quantum mechanics.
See, the
Schrodinger equation was not relativistic. And by making relativistic
varying forms and
so on, I made the great equation. It is the equation which in fact
Schrodinger had
originally written, but I didn’t find it, I didn’t look it up, and it’d
called the Klein-Gordon
equation.
Weiner:
And you had come across this on your own?
Feynman:
But I cooked it up. I mean, it’s easy — you generalize to relativity —
and I had worked
this out and shown it to him, and it stood in front of him; I played
around with it and
looked at it, and saw it for a long time, and I said, “This is it, this
is relativistic quantum
mechanics.” So he said, “All right. Let us calculate the energy levels
of hydrogen, and see
if they agree with the right energy levels.” This was a terrible shock
to me — that in fact,
we could actually do a real problem. You see, in spite of my practical
attitude, although I
had an equation that was so esoteric and marvelous — relativity, quantum
mechanics,
17
grand invariant and all these wonderful things — the wonder of the
formalities were
impressing me, but not the question, what would actually come out? And
to think that
we really could figure out hadn’t even struck me, so I said, “How? We
don’t know how
to do that, we’re too young” — you know what I mean? So he said, “Well,
let’s see —
equation so and so, the potential of the hydrogen atom ought to be ZE
squared over R
—”
Weiner:
This is Morse, you’re saying?
Feynman:
No, no — my friend. And so we sat down, the two of us, and he showed me
how to do
a real problem with an esoteric equation. I cooked up the equation, and
he tested it
against a hydrogen atom, and it gave the wrong fine structure. We looked
it up, and it’s
the wrong fine structure. So that was the end of it. And that was a
terrible, a very
important lesson, which was not to just rely on the beauty of the thing,
and the marvel
formality, it’s relativistic, it’s quantum mechanics, but to bring it
down against the real
thing — and that you can. It’s hard to explain. These things have to be
learned — that
you really can bring these things to examples, and should. I had to
learn it from him. I
was so impressed with the principles. So, anyway, we did that. We
discovered the Klein-
Gordon equation, and, with his help, discovered it was also wrong. But
that’s the kind of
thing we were doing. We weren’t doing too badly, for young fellows.
Weiner:
What about other courses? Chemistry —
Feynman:
Well, we went through. I studied chemistry, analytic chemistry. I did
pretty well with it,
because it was science, and I liked it. And I had to learn things, in
chemistry. I mean, I
had to remember all kinds of stuff, that the test of aluminum was some
organic
compound that turned red, and so on. I learned a lot of chemistry. I had
to. It’s not
something you can do by logic alone. But I also used my extra time,
later — near the
senior year, I had nothing to do — you know? I’d taken the senior
courses, some
graduate courses. I took stuff that interested me. I wanted to study
metallurgy. I studied
metallography, for instance, because it was a field I didn’t know
anything about. I was
always interested to learn something about which I didn’t know anything
— to see what
would happen, you know, in metallurgy, and metallography. I remember
that course in
particular. That’s when I discovered for the first time the very great
use of your
knowledge of physics, the universality. I thought metallurgy would be a
different subject,
you know, about metals. And in the class guys were always getting up and
saying things
18
like — you know, these were the metallurgy boys, who were now studying
their senior
course in metallography or whatever it is — we learned how to grind the
samples, look
at them under the microscope, all this stuff. So these guys would say,
“We were working
in the foundry, we had a sample of such and such a steel and when we
pounded it
something happened.” I had not such experience, so I knew I was at a
disadvantage. But
I didn’t really realize what a terrible advantage I was at because I
knew about atoms. I
knew it was nothing but piles of atoms. There were many things I would
understand
were possible or impossible without the experience. So I had to
compensate to some
extent. But I didn’t have confidence during the course that I’d really
know anything. It
was only after the final examination because the final exam came, and I
tried to answer
every question that I could. See, I didn’t have much experience, I
couldn’t remember all
this stuff so I tried to answer all these questions on what seemed
logical, sort of semi-
reasonable — I mean, what might happen with such things — as best I
could. After the
exam, I came out, and there’s these metallurgy experts talking — you
know, the usual
aftermath, after the exam. And they say, “How’d you do on the question
of why chrome
nickel something doesn’t corrode?” or something — you know. “Well,” I’d
say, “You
know, it’s the face —” I don’t remember now what. I’d say, “I think it’s
because of the
face it allows, and there’s a different packing on the surface, and so
the oxygen —” “No,
no, no, no! You see, it’s on account the —” something else. And so we
settled questions
like this, and I really felt, I was demolished, because these guys who
(I thought) knew
something told me everything I’d said was cockeyed. And in the end it
turned out I had
an excellent grade, and I had been right about all these things, you
see, when the grades
came. So I learned that really physics is a very useful background for
what looks like
different fields; that the world is the same, the physical laws are not
so un-useful — you
know what I mean? They work. Yeah, they work, and you can use the ideas
in different
fields, and you are ahead of the other guys, because there are a large
number of things
that are self-evident to you that they have to learn. But of course, you
have to learn
experience too. I’m not trying to say just — both together are much
better than
anybody. But it is true that studying physics is good all over the
place.
Weiner:
Your physics course, you seem to have covered…
Feynman:
Well, there were courses where I learned something, yes. Let me tell you
what I felt were
good courses. This was a course given by; I believe by, Harrison, who
was an optics man
— that’s right, isn’t it? George Harrison — which was called
Experimental Physics,
which I found fascinating. It was a lecture course. In addition, there
was a laboratory, but
the lecture was interesting. It started with, “How would you make a
plane?” — you
know, and the business about grinding three surfaces against each other;
how to make a
device that sits in a definite position, but making a dot for one leg of
the tripod, a line
for the other leg, and let the other just sit on the surface of the
plane, because if you
19
make two dots to put a strain into the legs — all kinds of interesting
things about how to
replace a thing. You take it out, you put it back, it should be in the
same place—not by
having all three dots laid, because it strains the legs, and so on and
so on. Lots of
interesting ideas, logical and interesting, about experiments. And these
challenges — the
storage battery: how much energy should it be possible to store per
cubic centimeter of
material? How much energy can we actually store in a storage battery?
Very much less.
Why is it impossible to put the energy in and be able to get it out at a
much higher
concentration than we can with storage batteries? Nobody knows! A great
challenge! He
knew how to teach the subject, you know. These were the challenges of
experiments
physics. The storage batteries were not so good. They’re getting better.
Your little
cadmium batteries are much better than they were. But I knew that
someday — that
there’s a problem that needs to be solved. And I learned about many
problems that need
to be solved from him. And also the beauty of — It was a great course. I
learned a lot
from that. That was a course I learned a lot from. In addition, the
laboratory itself, in
that course, was good. It was free laboratory. On the wall was list of
50 problems. You’d
pick one out and do it.
Weiner:
For the entire semester?
Feynman:
Whatever you could do it in. I did two of them. One was diffraction of
light from sound
waves generated a liquid, benzene, by a high frequency oscillator. You
know, you make
sound waves, and the index varies; light going through makes diffracted
image. Welpin
and I did that together. The second challenge I took was to build a
machine to measure
the ratio of velocities of two rotating shafts.
Weiner:
To build it from scratch?
Feynman:
Yeah, yeah — make it — actually work it out, yeah. So I had to design
how to do it, and
build the darned thing, and I made something, but my bearings were all
loose and my
machine shop work was very poor, and so it didn’t work.
Weiner:
Well, it required precision.
20
Feynman:
That’s right, and I wasn’t good enough at it. He, in fact, gave me a
great compliment for
design and everything, and said that it was only because of the machine
shop work —
that this would have really been a practical solution to the original
problem, that they had
been presented, but it was several years earlier, and they didn’t need
it; that I had quite a
clever device for it. He was always presenting this kind of problem, and
it was quite
exciting. The course had other problems in it, that other fellows took,
such as to make a
bolometer which can detect a candle at six miles. I mean, it was good!
It was great. And
the guy would figure it out because it’s within range. You see, these
things were all real.
They’re all possible — they’re just not impossible — and a fellow would
get a lot of
power out of it. It was an excellent course.
Weiner:
this was a one semester course, again?
Feynman:
I don’t remember. One year, probably. Yeah. Then, of course, as I got
into advanced
course at MIT, it was true, I was learning things. I’d take a course in
optics, with an
experimental laboratory, and the optics course was so detailed that I
would learn — the
techniques of Wallenstein prisms, and techniques for measuring the index
of refraction,
and so on, stuff that I hadn’t learned by myself. So in the more
advanced courses, the
more specialized, you see — like metalology itself — there more things
that I didn’t
know. So I would take these specialized courses, near the end, and learn
things in them.
Another thing that I learned something about was this. We had at that
time a thing called
the NYA. That was the National Youth Administration, which helped to
finance. Kids
would have jobs helping professors in some way. I got — with Welpin, as
a matter of
fact — a job helping Professor Warren in the X-ray department. We were
making some
tables of the universal lattices of some crystals or something. We had
to do it on
computing machines. We developed faster and faster methods, in which he
would do
something and I would take the number off his machine and do something.
We had a lot
of fun, getting it faster and faster. The problem he’d given us, however
— we calculated,
we did it as fast as we could possibly do it, we were as clever as we
could be, and then we
calculated how long it would take. Seven years. And we came to him with
the estimate
and explained it to him, and said to him, “This is as fast as we can do.
Look at the clever
ways we’re doing, you know. He said, “Boy, that’s great. Now let’s
calculate how long it
would take.” So we talked him out of a job. I mean, not the job — he
gave us other
things to do—but this was a mistake. It was too much calculating.
Weiner:
Was this during a semester? This was semester thing?
21
Feynman:
This was some of off hour’s job — maybe after school or something. No,
it wasn’t a
summer job. No. Later I got the same NYA job in the laboratory of
Stockbarger, a man
who made single crystals, large single crystals of lithium, fluoride,
and other alkali slides.
In his laboratory, I just did things like put up shelves, fix lights,
and so on. He tried to
give me some experimental thing to do, like to make a certain substance
(I don’t
remember what it was) out of lithium oxide and so on, with a furnace. I
built the furnace
and tried to make it. It didn’t work. And to do some other experiments
that he wanted to
do. He gave me good things to try, but I guess I wasn’t capable. When I
was doing some
other experiments with glass tubes, the glass crystallized in the
furnace. I never got
anything working good, except making the shelves and the lights, for the
work with him.
He had given me some good jobs, but they were always a failure. He also
told me to
design a device to measure the position of a shaft that’s oscillating in
the lathe. You
know, you can buy them, but he thought I should make one. It was money
troubles
always. And I designed one, in which the motion was communicated through
a rotating
needle, by the method of the fire drill for making fires, where you have
bow, you know,
which you wrap around a stick and move it back and forth, and you get a
big
magnification. He thought it was a great design, you know. He said, “Ok,
you design it
and build it so on.” I designed it and built it, but because of my lousy
machining,
imprecise machine work and so on, it was too wobbly and didn’t work.
Weiner:
Were you impatient in your machining?
Feynman:
No, I tried. I always had a respect for machine work, and I always
wanted to be able to
do it. I always liked the machinists. I always thought they were great
men, you know,
who make these things. I don’t understand why I was so lousy at it. I
tried very hard. I
had some fun, when I was working on something for Stockbarger, making
screw drivers
or something — I don’t remember what — for him. I had to go down to the
machine
shop often, and they had a student shop. There was a guy in the main
machine shop
called Andy, who was supposed to give the students tools. So I always
asked for tools.
He was always teasing me, that I was so lousy in machining, you know.
One day, he has a
great brass ring in his lathe, and I come for some tools. And he’s going
crazy. He’s got
the ring, it’s put in the lathe, he’s trying to get it straight, so he
has one of these needle
things, like I had been trying to build, and he notices it’s wobbling —
you know? Then
he has a lead hammer and he hits it somewhere, and he starts again and
it still wobbles,
and he’s going like this. “My God,” he says, “I’ve been doing this for
thirty minutes and
now you guys come and you want some tools and interrupt me!” and so on.
I say,
“Listen, Andy — I have a little work to do in there. It’ll take me
fifteen or twenty
22
minutes. When I come back in fifteen minutes, you’ll still be doing
this, and I’ll show
you how to do it.” I mean, the only thing I could do was make a joke.
You know. He
laughed, and I went out to do my job. The only way to counter a guy is
to make a joke,
you know, because he tells me I’m no good and so on. But while I’m
working for fifteen
minutes out there, I’m thinking like I never thought before — how to do
it? How to do
it? How to do it? You see? And by the end of the fifteen minutes, I went
back in there,
and sure enough, the poor guy is still fiddling around. But I had a way
figured out. He
had chalk that he had been trying to hold up against the thing, to make
a mark, you
know, but the hand wobbles and everything. So I says to him, “All right,
start it up, I’ll
show you how to do it.” By this time he’s so desperate, you see — he’s
absolutely
desperate, he’s been working for forty minutes, you know, he’s just
crazy — so he says,
“All right.” I say, “Give me the chalk — you see.” And I watched the
needle. And it goes
zig zig zig zig zig, as the thing goes around. I had a pretty good sense
of rhythm. I liked
to play drums and so on, you see. And I saw the rhythm. Oh, first I
said, “Andy, which
way does that needle go when it’s up?” You know? He says, “This way.” So
I watched.
Zig zig zig zig zig, and I think to myself “rhythm” and I hold the
chalk. And I move my
hand in the same rhythm as the needle, you see, near the disk, near the
wheel, and at just
the one moment, one bang, against the disk — you understand? So what I’m
really
doing, I’m pushing the chalk against the wheel at the moment the needle
the highest, but
getting in time with the God damned thing, see. You can’t do it in one
sweep, it’s
incredible, but you can get in time. Bing. So I said, “Tap it here, with
the mallet.” He hits
it. “I think it’s too hard.” I had to say that, because it might not
work. He turned it on.
Very smooth, with only a slight motion — jig jig jig jig jig — you know?
I said, “Just a
minute, we’ll get it a little better.” Just again. Same trick. Because
no matter how small
the nation, the time timing’s the same. Then I say, “Here, tap it very
lightly here.” He
taps it very lightly here, turns it on — mm mm mm, perfect! I felt
great! I was no good at
machine shop work, but that was my great triumph, when I told Andy how
to straighten
that out! I always wanted to be machinist, for some reason or other. I
mean, this was a
great moment. I can’t do it, but I won. And another time I got a great
kick out of it —
see, what I loved was the practical man. A great respect for the
practical man, probably
idealistic and incorrect, but I thought a man who really could do these
things had real
knowledge of some deep kind, so I loved these guys. So another time, I
was in another
shop. I had sent down to bend some sheets of metal for reflectors, for
the lamps, the
lights; I was putting in for Stockbarger’s room. They didn’t have any
big metal bender
down in physics. I had to go to the chemistry shop. So I’m down there
bending this
thing, and I see, there’s two guys down there, and I can hear them
talking. They don’t
know me from Adam. They don’t know I don’t know anything about machine
shop.
They have a circular disk, a copper ring, with a screening over it, for
some kind of a
generator that’s across it, and they want to drill a hole in the center
of the screening —
you see? To make a nice hole, a half-inch hole or an inch hole in the
center of the
screening, for some purpose. They’re making some kind of a generator, a
gas generator
or something. So they don’t know how to find the center of a circle, and
they’re going
around with a piece of paper, and thinking and talking to each other and
asking some
other guy, “How do you find the center of a circle? I can’t remember how
to find the
23
center of a circle?” On the paper they’ve drawn the circle. They’re
trying to construct it.
Ok. Again I have time to think. You see, the whole secret is to have
time to think, while
I’m sitting there bending — sooner or later, they’re going to come to
me. How do you
do it? How to do it? How to do it? I know how to find the center of a
circle on a
compass. That’s easy. But how to do it better? So I glance over and I
see a lathe wheel, a
pulley wheel, standing on a shelf, and I get a great idea. See, so I act
like the old
machinist from way back. Finally, they come to me, and they say, “How do
you find the
center of a circle?” I say, “Where’s your circle?” So he shows me this
piece of paper. “Is
that your circle? What do you want the center of that circle for? That’s
just an old piece
of paper.” I say, “That’s what you want to find the center of.” You
know? Practical man,
you know. So I say, “How accurate do you need it?” You know, wouldn’t
move — I say,
“How accurate do you need it? Is a sixteenth of an inch off all right?”
“Oh, yeah, that
would be all right.” I say, “Ok.” So I put the thing down on the table.
I go over and take
the wheel, which is nearly the same size. I place it over the disk that
they want to find the
center of, and you can see with the eye, it’s about half an inch around,
and you can make
the half an inch the same all the way around, within a sixteenth, very
easy. I drop a pencil
through the center of the shaft, you know, that fits, and it pushes and
opens the
screening at one point. I say, “That’s the center of your circle.” They
kind of crawled
away — you know, the old machinist, the great machinist, told them how
to do it,
instead of this theoretical baloney with a compass! I loved this kind of
nonsense, and I
enjoyed the game. Play, yeah.
Weiner:
Yeah, play is how you can describe it.
Feynman:
That play. That was my play, to make believe I was a great machinist.
Weiner:
Let me just for a minute diverge. You mentioned the rhythm of the chalk,
and that you
liked to play drums. Will you pardon me for asking, when did you start
doing that?
Feynman:
I can’t figure it out. I’ve often thought about, when did it start, but
I don’t know. I didn’t
really play drums. I played bang, bang against the wall. I played toy
drum. I made
rhythms, like hitting something against something else. I didn’t really
play. I never played
trap drums or any real drums with music. I was not that kind of drummer.
Weiner:
24
Were you interested in music?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
Did you listen for recreation or relaxation?
Feynman:
No. I never did and I still don’t.
Weiner:
Was there music in your house in Far Rockaway?
Feynman:
No. No. Music is one thing that didn’t —
Weiner:
And still doesn’t?
Feynman:
That’s right.
Weiner:
The sense of rhythm for its own sake.
Feynman:
I liked rhythm, yes. I do listen to drums. I mean, I could listen to
good drum music from
Africa, or something like that, but not music, the usual music.
Weiner:
I’d like to ask another question on the physics courses. From what I
gathered, the
courses could be termed theoretical or mathematical physics. There was
one you
25
mentioned, the course with Slater, and the other was the informal course
with Philip
Morse. Were there any others?
Feynman:
We took courses, yeah, but I don’t remember them. That’s right. Later
on, there was a
course offered for graduate students in nuclear physics, theoretical
nuclear physics, or
something like that, because Bethe and Bacher had written, in the REVIEW
OF
MODERN PHYSICS, a good summary of the situation in nuclear physics, and
so it was
thought that there ought to be a course at MIT in that. So for a special
graduate course,
this course was to be given by Frank and Morse ultimately. There were
going to study
this work and describe it.
Weiner:
Which Frank?
Feynman:
N. H. Frank. It was a high graduate course. It was considered the most
esoteric in the
whole — you know, way up there, nuclear physics, big deal. Welpin and I
thought we
would like to take it, but we were afraid we might not be allowed to
because it was so
hard. We must have been juniors, or possibly seniors, I don’t know which
— probably
seniors, I guess. So I remember that I went to the course the first day,
when the
registration was beginning, and there the whole room was full of
graduate students,
because there was a great desire for this. The whole room was full of
graduate students,
and Morse and Frank were up there in the front. And I walk in, and he
looks at me —
Morse does — he says, “Are you going to take this course?” And I felt
terrible, you
know. I said –- “I hope —” “You going to register for this?” “Well… I
hoped to…”
“And how about your friend Welpin?” I said, “Yeah.” He said, “Good. Now
we have
three guys registered, we can give the course.” One graduate student had
had the nerve
to register for it, and then we had two. They were afraid they would
flunk it. It was
supposed to be — you know, it was hard to learn — but they all wanted to
listen.
Weiner:
They were all auditing it?
Feynman:
They were all auditing the darned thing. And he was happy that we were
going to
register. I was afraid, when he said that, that he was going to say,
“Look — this is way
out of bounds,” you know. So anyway, Welpin and I, the two
undergraduates, saved the
graduate students, so that Morse and Frank could give the course in
nuclear physics. I
26
don’t remember the course. I don’t think I learned much from it. I think
it was too high
for me, because I don’t remember it.
Weiner:
When you introduced this idea of the course, you mentioned the REVIEWS
OF
MODERN PHYSICS, the article. What was the link? That sort of set the
stage for
teaching this? How did the article itself relate to the teaching of the
course?
Feynman:
Well, that was the — they used this article, you see, to teach the
course from. You see,
nuclear physics knowledge had not been really organized anywhere. There
weren’t any
good textbooks in nuclear physics. They were rather poor. They were
textbooks that
would tell methods of arranging a Geiger counter, but there wasn’t a
textbook which
told what people were thinking, how to analyze it, and so forth. The
articles that they
had written were not really review articles. The great men, Mr. Bethe,
Mr. Bacher, had
worked out a lot of new things in those articles, you see, which
organized the knowledge
of the deuteron and the nuclear forces. It was a very new organization
of the knowledge
of nuclear physics, at the time. So it was a very important contribution
that these two
men had made, and it served. It would serve us as a very good—good to
learn, because it
was a good place to begin your understanding of nuclear physics. It
wasn’t really a rehash
of the old stuff that was known. It was a new reorganization of the
knowledge, plus a lot
of additional calculations and so on.
Weiner:
Had you read this article?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
In the course of the course, you read it.
Feynman:
Yes. I can’t remember the course. I presume we didn’t get much out of
it. It probably
was too difficult for me. I don’t remember it very well. I don’t
remember anything very
well.
27
Weiner:
Did the auditors stay with it?
Feynman:
I can’t remember any more what happened. I just remember that much of
it.
Weiner:
Any others of this type?
Feynman:
Well… no, I don’t remember. We took courses in X-rays and other things.
I don’t
remember whether it was senior or partially graduate. We were taking
more or less
advanced things. It was a good opportunity. MIT was a good opportunity.
Oh, there
were also courses that were supposed to be humanities, to develop your —
you know —
with which I had very little patience. Those courses in English, which
we had to learn, in
case we ever had to write a patent was the excuse given. There were
other students in the
fraternity house, for example, good friends of mine, who liked it — who
liked to study
French literature, who liked the English course, who were interested in
writing patents.
But I didn’t. It was to me a pain in the neck, it was a bother, and it
was a thing I didn’t
like to do. In fact, I used to cheat a little bit in the English class.
We had exams every day
to see if we had read the book of the day before, you know. There was
always a quiz at
the beginning of the day for ten minutes, so you’d look over at the guy
next to you, kind
of, because you didn’t feel like reading it. I lost my moral sense for a
while in the English
course. It was all forced, and the testing of whether you’d read it was
forced, and the
whole thing was kind of, to me, a bit illegitimate. I didn’t like it.
And I always fought;
always felt I had to fight the humanities, in order to keep working on
the things I really
wanted to work on. They were just a pain in the neck. That was the
attitude. I don’t
know if I have the attitude now, but I’m just telling this, so you’ll
see the picture of the
guy.
Weiner:
You felt they were intruding?
Feynman:
Yes. I didn’t see why I had to worry about that now. After all, how do
you spell
something? Suppose I make a mistake? (This was my attitude — it was the
attitude at the
time.) You make a mistake in spelling. What does it mean? It means that
the damn
language is irrational. It’s just a stupid method of spelling. Some guy
ought to make some
28
progress. If those English professors would sit around and figure out
how to straighten
out the spelling, instead of teaching this idiocy all the time — they
had no feeling of
progress, no feeling of development, like the sciences or anything. They
don’t try to do
anything about anything, they just sit there and write commentary about
what the other
guys are — You know, this kind of attitude. And my mistakes in English
spelling, if
they’re taken to be a serious lack of intellectual achievement by
somebody, it’s his
mistake, because English spelling is a ridiculous and unnecessary thing
to learn. You see
what I mean? That was the attitude. And then the philosophy — I had
looked at books
in philosophy. For a while in high school, I tried to be a philosopher,
sort of. I got the
idea that I had sort of grown, that I got from biology which I was first
interested in, into
chemistry, to physics, to mathematics, and then to philosophy. A
hierarchy of intellectual
climbing. So I did a little philosophy, trying to prove that God didn’t
exist by logic, or
some such thing. You know?
Weiner:
Did you read anything?
Feynman:
No. I used to look a little bit at Reade. But when I read, I realize how
stupid things are.
Like my girlfriend Arlene, for example, was trying to read Descartes,
and I started, I
looked at Descartes’ first few paragraphs, in which, starting from only
the fact that he is,
he proves that God is perfect. Now, I know enough about logic to know
that there are
some things that don’t come out of some things. That is, you can usually
guess from the
axioms what kind of thing was going to come out, you know? And it isn’t
possible to get
that out. Therefore there’s something wrong with the reasoning. So I
look at it, and it’s
obvious where the errors in the reasoning are, and I pointed them out to
the girl. But I
rapidly learned that philosophy, as far as I was concerned, the
philosophers who were
respected were really quite poor and rather stupid people — at least,
from the modern
point of view. It seems to me that there were trivial errors in logic
which were obvious.
Very poor, it seemed to me. Therefore, when we had in the English course
to learn
about the philosophical development of ideas in the modern society — you
know, the
philosophers, what they said — it was called, something about the mind.
Weiner:
THE MAKING OF THE MODERN MIND?
Feynman:
Yes, something like that.
29
Weiner:
By Randall?
Feynman:
Right. We used it as a textbook. And there was so much stuff in there,
so much
nonsense, while the modern mind was being made! Much better I should use
my modern
mind. You understand what I mean? Yeah, it was a pain in the neck.
Because I had to
remember that so and so said this dumb thing, and that this guy said
that dumb thing —
it seemed to me. That’s the way it seemed to me. Once in a while,
somebody would say
something smart. Big deal, about Bacon — you know? — big deal, about how
he really
understood how we should do experiments. So I look up old Gilbert, who
did
experiments in those days, and what he said about Bacon. Then I felt the
same way. He
said this guy was a good philosopher, a good scientist for a —
something, for a prime
minister. “He writes science like a prime minister.” Then I realized
that historically, while
he’s telling what people ought to do, Mr. Gilbert was doing something so
real — while
this guy’s telling what we ought to do. And we get the idea in the
history that the science
was developing because they followed Bacon’s principles of how to do it,
you know, and
this kind of stuff. So the more I learned, the less I believed anything.
Anyhow, I just
didn’t read, I didn’t like it; altogether, I tried to object. Now, you
had to take humanities,
and later you had options in humanities. There were things like French
literature, and so
on, but there was also philosophy, astronomy, believe it or not, as one
of the humanities,
and something like psychology.
Weiner:
Astronomy was descriptive astronomy?
Feynman:
Yeah. So I took the astronomy, naturally, because it was the minimum
escape. I also
took the philosophy.
Weiner:
Who taught the astronomy?
Feynman:
I don’t remember. Stewart — a man named Stewart, I think, although you’d
have to
check if such a man exists. But the astronomy course was taken from I
think a book by
Baker — a simple course. It was a simple course in astronomy. It was
nice, it was easy —
that was good. I learned stuff. It was fine, because it was science. In
the philosophy
30
course — I could tell a little story about the philosophy course?
Weiner:
Sure.
Feynman:
The philosophy professor, whose name I believe was Robinson, who died
not long after,
was an old man with a beard, and he spoke in a mumbled fashion which I
found
incomprehensible. I swear, absolutely incomprehensible! I do not
exaggerate. Only once
in a very great while would a few words ever hang together. And I
listened. Every day
we’d come and we listened to this guy, and once I heard him go,
“bmbmobmoboo, the
stream of consciousness, rmbmoob…” That’s all. That’s about the level. I
understood
nothing else. It turned out that the other students were gradually
understanding him.
They were learning how to hear him. But I, of course, having this block
against
philosophy in the first place, never got to understand him. And I just
felt it was a waste
of time. We used to sit there through the whole hour, then go out. One
day, at the end
of the class, he says something. “Brmbmbmrmboo,” — and then there’s a
wave of
excitement through the students! Something important he said, at last! I
mean, nobody
had ever batted an eyeball before, but now all of a sudden they seem to
comment on the
great interest of this thing. So I ask a student, “What did he say at
the end of the class
that everybody seemed to be so excited about?” “That we have to write a
theme, he said,
for the final grade.” I said, “On what?” “On what he’s been talking
about all year.” This
was absolutely true. I’m not exaggerating. I remember what it was. So, I
had heard the
words, “stream of consciousness.” That’s a problem that always
interested me. What
happens when you go to sleep? My father had taught me to think about the
world from
the point of view of a Martian coming down and asking you questions.
Suppose a
Martian didn’t sleep. He’d be very interested in the question of
sleeping. He’d say, “How
does it feel?” You go along, your mind is working, your mind is working,
all of a sudden,
what does it do? What happens, when you go to sleep, to the ideas? Do
they go slower
and slower and gradually stop? Do they suddenly turn off? What happens?
It was
interesting. Ok? So I decided, “Well, that has something to do with the
stream of
consciousness, so maybe I can get away with this, I can’t do any
better.” So I would
work on my philosophy by going up to my room in the afternoon, pulling
down the
shades, and getting into bed, and watching, introspecting, what would
happen when I
went to sleep. I would do the same thing at night when I’d fall asleep.
So I’d fall asleep in
the afternoon for a little nap, and at night, and I’d work for quite a —
we had a long
time to work on this theme — so I worked quite a long time, and I kept
introspecting,
and noticed a lot of things, because if you practice you can think
deeper and deeper into
the sleep moment. Anyway, I had a lot of observations, which I included
in a theme,
ultimately, and at the end of the theme, I remarked about the
difficulty, that of course
I’m only knowing what I’m thinking, what I’m trying to think — what am I
thinking?
You know the difficulty of introspection. And I said, “This is
exemplified by the well-
31
known poem, ‘I wonder why, I wonder why, I wonder why I wonder? I wonder
why I
wonder why I wonder why I wonder.’” — which I made up. So I sent in the
theme,
handed in the theme. Then, sometime later, he was reading. He brought
some of the
themes. The professor brought some of the themes to class, and would
read one of the
themes of somebody. Then he read another one. And near the end of this
one, he says,
“Mbmbmbmbmbmbm” — so I realized from the rhythm that this was my theme.
I
swear, I had not recognized it until near the end, that he had been
reading my theme.
That shows you the level at which I understood this guy. So it turns out
I got an A on
the theme. Pretty good. But it shows you what you needed to do to pass
philosophy. I
always kept fighting everything. I remember, we were supposed to read —
Oh, in one
darned course in humanities we had Goethe’s FAUST. I don’t know how the
heck I ever
got into that darned thing. And the end, after reading Goethe’s FAUST,
we had to write
a theme about it. Well, I had read it; I didn’t make head or tail of it.
I mean, I’m dumb, I
admit about these things — I couldn’t make head or tail. So we had to
write this theme. I
said to my fraternity brothers, “Listen — I can’t do it! I can’t do it!
There’s a limit, I just
can’t do it, I don’t know what I’m going to do.” So I said, “I’m simply
going to hand in a
paper saying I refuse to do this.” So the fellows said to me, “We have a
better idea. Why
don’t you write a theme on something else, a long one, the same number
of words, that’s
completely irrelevant, and then put it a note that says you felt you
could not make
enough sense out of the FAUST, cause you’re not capable, but it’s not
the work you
want to avoid, because you’ve done the work on something else.” That’s
what their
suggestion was. I said, “All right, I’m willing to do that” — because
they were worried
that the guy would think I didn’t want to do anything. So I sat down and
I wrote a theme
on the limitations of reason, that there are certain problems that
cannot be solved by
thinking about them alone — you know, aesthetic meanings and value
judgments and
various things. I don’t remember about the theme now, but a lot of
discussion of the
limitations of the method of science and so on. I wrote this theme. The
boys looked at it
and they said, “Listen, we’ve been thinking it over. I ain’t gonna look
too good. It isn’t
gonna work. Why don’t you — as long as you got all this written — say a
few words
about how it’s got something to do with FAUST?” This is true. So then I
sat down, after
I wrote the whole theme, and I wrote a page and a half or two pages
more. I said, “This
problem of the limitations of reason is well illustrated in FAUST. Faust
represents
Reason” — or Mephistopheles does, or something, and Faust love of life,
I don’t
remember what, but I had enough vague knowledge of the thing to be able
to make
something up. But the original theme was written completely independent
of this idea.
Then I put this crap at the end. The trouble was that with this teacher,
you had to go
into his office to discuss your theme. So he went into the office, after
he had read it, and
then I looked at it, and he’d written at the top, “The introductory
material is excellent,
but the connection with FAUST is not too satisfactory. I would advise a
better
proportion between the FAUST material and the introduction.” And I got a
good grade,
like B plus or something. Yeah, he saw that it was put together. Anyhow,
I got away with
it. But I always would struggle like this. We had to write on — to make
some
commentary on any one of a series of themes, and one of them was
Huxley’s “On a
Piece of Chalk.” You had to write a book review, an analytic analysis of
the work. I
32
couldn’t do that. Instead of that I wrote what might be called a kind of
parody — not
exactly, but an imitation — on a piece of dust, in which I told all the
things that dust did.
You see, he told about all these chalk cliffs and so on. It was the
nearest scientific thing I
would always take. See, there were a lot of books that were not that —
I’d take the
nearest thing. Then I’d talk about all the things that dust did, the
center of condensation
for rain, the effects of colors of sunsets, and so on, the burying of
cities, and all these
things.
Weiner:
Did you save that one?
Feynman:
I don’t think I have any of these. But I was always escaping. I’m trying
to emphasize that
my humanities effort was always somehow to figure out how I could, by
using science,
escape the humanities. I fought it to the bitter end.
Weiner:
How about extracurricular activities at MIT? Anything, any clubs or
student activities,
other than the fraternity social functions?
Feynman:
Practically none. I did try to play a little squash for a while, with my
two friends from the
fraternity.
Weiner:
Not on the team?
Feynman:
No, I never got to a team. No.
Weiner:
School papers, or —?
Feynman:
No.
33
Weiner:
Clubs or anything?
Feynman:
No. No.
Weiner:
Were there any science clubs?
Feynman:
I don’t know. I don’t think so, no. No, I don’t remember anything like
that. The
extracurricular activities there were girlfriends and going for walks in
the city and stuff
like that, learning to drive a car and so on. There were rather
intensive discussions of
physics all the time, in your spare time, with friends, Welpin and so
on.
Weiner:
You mentioned in previous conversation a paper that you published during
MIT. I think
there were two. There was one in 1939 —
Feynman:
Yes.
Weiner:
There was one I think you said that was earlier, that hasn’t shown up on
your
bibliography.
Feynman:
Yes. Mr. Vallarta was there. He was interested in cosmic rays.
Weiner:
How do you spell his name?
Feynman:
34
Vallarta. And we had become friends. I had been in a class of his. And
he said to me —
he told me about a problem that he had that had to do with the question.
It was not
correct, he did not analyze it, but of course, cosmic rays came from
inside, or outside, of
our galaxy, and he imagined that if they came from outside of our
galaxy, they would be
scattered by the material, the stars of the galaxy, by their magnetic
field, so in galaxies
like the Milky Way, there would be, say, more or less cosmic rays, than
in the direction
perpendicular, where there’s not so much scattering. So he asked me if I
could figure out
which way it would go, and what the effect was. I was rather amazed and
happy. I don’t
know where the thing began, but I got interested in the scattering of
light by clouds, and
things like that. I don’t know which one came first, whether I had found
the problem
and thought to use it on cosmic rays, whether I told him about it, or
which way it was.
Maybe it was the other way. Anyway, I was working on this scattering of
light by clouds
and fog and so on. I discovered that, surprisingly, it was a very
difficult problem. One of
the things one learns in school which is incorrect i that problems are
relatively easy, if
they’re formed, you can set ‘em up, you can solve them — which isn’t at
all true. And
there are a vast number of simple problems to state that are very
difficult to analyze, and
one of them is the way that light coming in and scattered by a certain
angular function
from each droplet finally works its way through the cloud layer.
Incidentally, I did
discover by fiddling around that there was a delta function, which is
the original
direction of the light, which comes at the other end of the cloud —
there’s still some
delta function left. And this I didn’t believe, because I was sure that
fog smeared the
image. But I remember going out, when it was a foggy day in Boston and
looking at a
building far away, which was a very light contrast but a very sharp
edge. And I realized
that my mathematics was right, that the sharpness of the image is still
there, although it’s
lost against the contrast. It isn’t that fog smears, it’s only that it
decreases contrast. You
know, it doesn’t smear the image — which is obvious, but I didn’t
notice. I noticed these
equations and thought, “That’s wrong.” Then I looked at the phenomenon
and found
that that was right. But anyhow, I was working on this scattering, and I
discovered,
proved, that the net effect is zero. It’s a famous theorem which other
people had proven.
I didn’t know that. If it’s uniform for the outside, just as much is
scattered away from a
certain direction as is scattered in from some other direction. And I
proved it. So in the
end I didn’t need the formulas from the scattering of the cloud, but
could demonstrate
that this was the case. Vallarta thought that this was very interesting,
and that that was
the solution to his problem. There was no effect of the scattering, of
the stars in the
galaxy. He thought we ought to write this up, and we would write it
together, because he
would explain the application of this to the thing, and he would make
some remarks
about it, that we assume the stars don’t absorb the cosmic rays. We
wrote it up,
essentially, and the proof of this thing is in there. The theorem has
been proven by
others in other applications, but we didn’t know that, so we published
it, and no referee
found out that it was published before.
Weiner:
This was published as a letter to the PHYSICAL REVIEW.
35
Feynman:
That’s right, a letter.
Weiner:
And I think the name of it was “The Scattering of Cosmic Rays from the
Stars of the
Galaxy.”
Feynman:
You’ve got it.
Weiner:
March 1st, 1939.
Feynman:
And then Vallarta — when we were writing up, Vallarta says, “Listen, I’m
going to put
my name first.” He was joking. He’s a very pleasant man. I don’t mean
anything. “The
way we arrange it, see is I put my name first, because I am the senior
scientist.” He was
humorous partly, you know? It was no problem. So he put his name first
and then my
name came next -– “Vallarta and Feynman” — you see? Then later, just
after the war,
Heisenberg wrote a book on cosmic rays, and this paper — he wrote on
every paper, a
kind of summary — and this paper had no place anywhere. Nobody referred
to it. He
didn’t know where to put it. So it was mentioned at the end of the book,
and it says,
“The effect of the stars of the galaxy in scattering cosmic rays has
been analyzed by
Vallarta and Feynman.” Therefore I was the last word in the cosmic ray
book by
Heisenberg. And when I saw Vallarta sometime after, I said, “Did you see
the book by
Heisenberg?” He says, “Yes. You’re the last word in cosmic rays.” He had
noticed it too.
He says, “That’s what I get for being the senior scientist.” He even
remembered this
little joke he had pulled.
Weiner:
So your citation was the last word.
Feynman:
Yeah.
36
Weiner:
We’re now on the first side of the second reel of tape, and we’ve just
finished talking
about Richard Feynman’s published paper, a letter to the PHYSICAL
REVIEW, March
1, 1939, dealing with scattering of cosmic rays. There was another paper
in that period.
Would you like to discuss that now?
Feynman:
Yeah. We had to make a senior thesis at MIT. You had to write some kind
of a research
thesis. Incidentally, that reminds me of something else. I’ll come back
to the paper.
During that time, there was discovered by two men at MIT (that I knew in
the optics
lab) a method of coating glass with film so that it was not reflecting.
They discovered it.
Independently somebody in General Electric, Katharine Blodgett or
something — And
one of the kids, for a thesis was given the job of developing the
formulas for the
reflection from such layers. He asked me for advice, and so I worked out
the whole
theory of the reflecting from layers –- incidentally — that’s not
published, but that was
also worked out at that time.
Weiner:
Was it published as part of his work?
Feynman:
No. For my thesis problem — Oh and somebody else had another problem. I
would
help the guys. Anyway, my problem — I went to Slater, and he gave me a
problem,
which was — (he was in solid state, he was interested) — why does quartz
have such a
small coefficient of expansion? He thought that maybe the possibility
was that the quartz
crystal has moveable — see it’s silicone dioxide, SiO2 so I think there
are oxygen’s
clinging to silicones, and in the motion the oxygen can swing back and
forth, and it’s a
bent angle, turning back and forth, like the bores on the governor of an
old steam
engine, and when it turns — when this is oscillating, it’s the same idea
— it pulls the
heads of the steam engine together, the ends, because the bore goes out
by centrifugal
force. And so the bent bottom will be shortened — I mean, it will be
pulled together by
the motion — and this will compensate the ordinary effects which tend to
make
something expand, so that the expansion will be much less than usual.
Can I work out
any details or estimates or something to show that in fact that’s the
reason that quartz
doesn’t expand? All right, that was the problem. I was very interested
in it. The first
thing I did was, I looked up the forms, crystobalite A, crystobalite B,
crystal forms, and
so on, to get the idea of the bonds and the angles and so on. I got in
the crystal business.
Then I realized I’d have to figure out how a change in forces will
change the dimensions
of the crystal. So then I got involved — I’m just telling you how I did
the problem,
because it’s quite a long business — then I got involved with the
connection between the
37
forces between the atoms, and the forces — all together. For example, if
a crystal is
compressed, what is the compressent strength? Supposing I assume certain
spring
constants between all the atoms and I want to know what the elastic
constants of the
whole crystal are. I realized that what I had to do there was an
infinite bridge truss
problem, like the guys in applied engineering with bridges with a lot of
members. I had
an infinite number of members. But, because of the periodicity, I had an
advantage that I
could work out. Then I gradually developed the theory of the connection
between the
elastic bonds and the elastic — a theory which is developed by Blackman
and other
people — but those things never bothered me. I never looked at anything.
I always tried
to do it myself, because I’d learn something, maybe get a different
idea. I never looked
up. So I worked that out, and then discovered by fooling around that I
could get it for a
principle of energy minimum, that there was a much better way of
formulating. I was
learning a lot. And also the idea of stress tensors in crystal and so
on. I had developed
the idea of stress tensors and so on. I had to learn about stress
tensors. And then as I
kept working with this — see, I was getting away from the original
problem, I was
moving away from the problem, not purposely but this is how my mind led
me — I
began to think about the stress tensor, about a plane that goes through
the middle of the
crystal somewhere. See, how do you define the stress tensor? It’s all
right when you put
springs on and a certain number of forces across a plane, but they’re
not springs, they’re
electrons, according to quantum mechanics. Question: what do I calculate
to carry the
stress across the face? Then I got very interested in the whole problem
of stresses and
molecules, just as well as in crystals. For example, in hydrogen di-H20,
water, the two
hydrogen atoms are a little bit more than 90 degrees, and the question
is, is that because
the hydrogen’s push apart, and how much is the sheer strain and stress
in the bonds?
You work it out. In other words, can you cut a plane through there and
calculate the
shear across the plane through the hydrogen and oxygen and so on. So I
tried to develop
a stress tensor for the field that would be right for any point in space
in quantum
mechanics, and I developed the formula for the stress tensor. But in
order to stress the
formula for stress tensor, I first had to find the formula for the
force. You see, the
divergence of the stress was equal to the force. And I noticed, I found
that this force was
nothing but the electric field exerted by the other particles; since
that electric field, the
forces from that, could be expressed as Maxwell’s tensor, I would
combine Maxwell’s
tensor for the electric field with the stress tensor of kinetic energy
of the Schrödinger
equation, and I did find the stress, a formula for the stress. It turns
out Pauli had
previously found a formula for the stress, but as a matter of fact he
only found part of it.
He did not have a stress tensor which worked at any point in space. I
noticed that later.
But anyway, in the meantime I’d found this theorem about the forces, but
the force on
the nucleus is nothing but the electrostatic attraction of all the
electrons, the distribution
of the electrons being determined by the Schrodinger equation. Slater
found this
interesting and unusual, and hadn’t known that. He challenged me, and
said, “How do
you explain van der Waals’ forces that way?” So I went back and I proved
that the van
der Waals’ force could also be understood that way. Then he said it was
worthwhile, I
ought to publish it. So I wrote it up. And he said, “Let Conyers Herring
look at it.” He
was good at these things. Herring looked at it, and there was a long
session. He said,
38
“Take this out.” I had the proof that the integral of F times F times
HG, where H is the
Hamiltonian, was the same as HF star times G, integrated. And I proved
it with the
Schrödinger equation.
Weiner:
Where was Herring at the time?
Feynman:
At MIT. Herring says to me, “Take that out, and write instead such and
such equals such
and such because H is Hermitian self-adjoining.” I said, “What does that
mean?” He
said, “That’s what it means. It means that equation is true.” I’m just
saying this to show
the level of what I knew. See, I proved everything by hand — I didn’t go
into the
general. So he took that out, and so on, and then I proved this theorem,
and it was in
this paper.
Weiner:
This paper was in —
Feynman:
Which Slater thought ought to be published, and Herring also thought
ought to be
published.
Weiner:
You submitted that directly to PHYSICAL REVIEW?
Feynman:
Right.
Weiner:
This was the one called “Forces and Molecules,” published August 15,
1939.
Feynman:
Yes. But my thesis at MIT contained also stresses and molecules, which
I’ve always felt
was a real contribution also. More important, even. I mean, it was an
editorial
contribution, which isn’t published anywhere. But they thought only the
force part was
39
worthwhile — which was only a part that I needed for the other thesis.
Weiner:
Now, if I remember what you said, Slater proposed this problem as your
senior thesis.
Feynman:
This problem about the temperature effect, yeah.
Weiner:
And out of that came this —
Feynman:
Right — which was acceptable as a senior thesis. Of course, you could
wander around
and get another problem, but I got my senior thesis on stresses in the
space in molecules.
For that thesis I needed a theorem, and this is the theorem which is a
lemma, so to
speak, in the other thing, see?
Weiner:
I see. In the senior thesis at MIT, in that period, was it a question of
choosing a
professor, or were you assigned one?
Feynman:
No, I think you kind of went around and asked guys what kind of problems
they could
suggest. I don’t know how they did it, because I don’t see how we could
do it with our
seniors. It must have been a tremendous effort — to find problems, at
that level, that a
senior student could have any chance of doing — it seems right
remarkable. I would be
terrified if I had that problem, as a professor today. At any rate, I
would like to make
some comments about the paper, which is really after the publication.
Within a short
time after the publication, I knew more, and I realized that that’s a
very trivial thing, that
theorem — that that’s nothing but the first order perturbation theory.
It’s an obvious
statement from the first order perturbation theory of Schrodinger, and
it’s not really very
much. It’s an obvious conclusion, and an interesting one. I realized
that nobody referred
to it. It was rather a useless theorem that nobody referred to. And I
realized that it was
not only useless but it was obvious. I could have written it in half a
line. It was nothing.
Therefore I was quite surprised when, in 1948 or 1949, I went to
Michigan — (I mean, a
change in the timing, just to tell you, for my own amusement, because I
always felt a
little bit ashamed of it, on the grounds that it was too trivial and
useless, not very
40
interesting.) At Michigan I was giving some lectures on electrodynamics
and Ted Berlin
said to me, “What do you think about the controversy about your paper?”
I said, “What
paper?” He was talking about “Forces and Molecules,” and he told me that
there was a
big debate as to whether the theorem is true — it’s called the
Feynman-Hellman
theorem or something like that, because somebody else has published a
similar thing —
and there’s big excitement about it, they’re arguing whether it’s true,
and somebody in
Germany said it’s not true because I only included the electrostatic
forces, there are also
the kinetic forces, and so on — I said, “No, that’s not right.” He said,
“I know. We’ve
been arguing back and forth. They claim you made two mistakes that
cancel, and you
were just lucky, and we claim that it’s not that you were lucky but you
knew what you
were doing.” I said, “Well, I knew what I was doing. It’s correct.” You
know?
Apparently it had caused interest, and it is interesting to physical
chemists.
Weiner:
And you were unaware of that?
Feynman:
I was completely unaware of all this discussion.
Weiner:
You hadn’t seen any reference in the literature?
Feynman:
None.
Weiner:
You didn’t know that your paper was being discussed.
Feynman:
Right — up until 1949. I still have never seen any references, only —
I’ve seen one or
two references. Somebody’s written me a letter saying something about
the paper, or
something.
Weiner:
Berlin told you about this.
41
Feynman:
Yeah.
Weiner:
Was he at Michigan in attendance before he went to Hopkins?
Feynman:
I think so. I think it was Ted Berlin. Anyway, somebody, in 1949, but
that was the first
time I found out — which amused me a lot, of course. I just tell you
that because I had
always felt a bit ashamed, and it was unnecessary, and it was funny to
find people arguing
about something like that because it was so obviously true and so
trivial.
Weiner:
Now, this business of assigning a senior thesis was routine. But you
were assigned other
problems, extracurricular ones.
Feynman:
I wasn’t assigned.
Weiner:
Well, I mean, you just sort of got together with the professors on these
things. Was it a
small enough group for them to know you?
Feynman:
Oh yeah, they all knew me, yeah.
Weiner:
They knew you because of your work and your interests.
Feynman:
Yes. Yes. Then, there’s another thing that I can’t — I was just
thinking, I’m not
absolutely sure whether this was done at the time, when I was a student
at MIT, or later.
When I was at Princeton for my Ph.D., to study for my exam, I went to
MIT for a few
months, to read and study, to be alone and nobody would interrupt me.
Therefore, if I
remember something happening at MIT, it is not absolutely necessarily.
So, I remember
42
this happening at MIT. It’s rather interesting, because I developed; I
got interested again
in mathematics, a mathematical theme. I had noticed or had read
somewhere that for
linear differential equations you write D for a symbol to represent
derivative, and then D
squared to represent the second derivative, D cubed the third derivative
— but what is
D to the two and a half? I would think to myself. Or 6.71? You know? I
got interested in
such things. Or, just take, what is the square root of 1 plus D squared?
What is E to the
AD? Well, I found out what E to the AD was, on f(x) it’s f(x) plus A,
but some
suggestions and hints from the ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA article on
calculus of
finite differences.
Weiner:
This is the same 13th edition you’d used in high school?
Feynman:
It’s the same — no, I knew enough from high school — no, I had it at
home, you see,
when I’d go home for vacations I’d read the darned thing. I would be –-
more — I mean
it has a lot of stuff in it. Couldn’t understand anything when I was in
high school. So I
began to develop the question of a function of D operating on another
function of X,
and I developed quite a lot of theorems, and lots of amusing and
interesting things, and
did solve the problem of the off-derivative, where R is not an integer,
what it is. I believe
I did this when I was at MIT, because I remember finally going to
Vallarta and telling
him about it, and him saying that this was just the operator calculus of
[inaudible]
something. It isn’t exactly, but it’s extremely close to it. But I
didn’t know about the
operator calculus of — I didn’t bother. Those things never bothered me,
because after
all, that was only invented in 1907, so I was going along good, you
know? But I did
invent that by myself. I did lots of things. I worked a lot, but it was
pleasure, you know. I
liked to play these games.
Weiner:
What happened with this? It was just a personal thing; there was no
application of it in
particular?
Feynman:
No. No. I applied it at other times later, my knowledge of that.
Weiner:
How did you preserve it, in a notebook?
43
Feynman:
Yeah. I’ve got that notebook somewhere.
Weiner:
And then you referred back to it?
Feynman:
No, from memory. I mean, it’s easy to understand what you’re — If you
understand
something, you can remember it, when you work it out yourself.
Weiner:
Some time in your senior year, early in your senior year, you had to
think of graduate
school, and when was it that you knew you’d be going to graduate school?
Then what
were the steps leading up to the choice of the school and final
application?
Feynman:
Ok. There’s one little complication in that. There was a mathematics
exam for college,
not an exam but a contest — it was like an exam, whoever got the best
thing won
something. I don’t know whether this was Pi Mu Epsilon? No, some other
exam. Some
big mathematics competition. And the math department didn’t have enough
good men.
They had to have three men on a team, or five men on a team, or
something. And so
they called me and said, “You used to be in mathematics, would you enter
the contest?”
I said, “Look, I’m not in mathematics. Mathematics students are learning
a lot of stuff
that I don’t know and they’re in the other colleges, and I don’t think I
can do it.” They
said, “Well, look, we need the guy, so why don’t you do it, just to —?”
I said, “Ok.”
Really, it wasn’t false modesty. It was a big surprise to me, what
happened. Because then
they gave you some old exams. They were happy that somebody, that they
had enough
guys, you know, so they gave me some old exams, and I went through them
to see the
kind of problems that they had. And they were quite difficult in certain
ways, in other
ways not, and I had to review some subjects, like analytic geometry,
which I had
forgotten, partly, to do certain problems. I worked a little bit at it,
but I didn’t take it very
seriously. I was sort of sitting in, you know? Then the exam thing came
around, and one
of the prizes was that one of the winners, one of the five, would be
chosen for a
scholarship to Harvard for the graduate school — I believe, if I
remember right. The
method, as I understood it, was they didn’t want to take the winner,
because they didn’t
want to be stuck with a nut of some sort, by accident, right? So they
made it that out of
the first five they could choose, Ok? Anyway, I was among the first
five. I have since
found out from somebody from Canada, where it was scored, who was in the
scoring
division—he came to me much later and he told me that it was
astonishing. He said that
44
at this examination, “Not only were you one of the five, but the gap
between you and
the other four was sensational.” He told me that. I didn’t know that.
That may not be
correct, but that’s what I heard.
Weiner:
First five nationally, or among certain states or schools?
Feynman:
The whole nation. Yeah. It was quite a thing. I was surprised.
Weiner:
There is a national mathematics competition that still exists.
Feynman:
I think it still exists.
Weiner:
At Cal Tech, we did it for Case, he’s here in some kind of —
Feynman:
Well, I don’t know, anyway — I think you have to look up to see if that
was true, that
there was this gap, but that’s what somebody told me later. Anyway, I
was one of the
five. This has to do with the question of the graduate school. It must
have been in the
fall of the senior year, I presume, because I did get an informal feeler
from Harvard,
would I be interested in going? To which I said “No” because I’d already
decided to go
to Princeton by that time That’s funny. It sounds incredible. Why should
I be so sure
that I didn’t want to go to Harvard? I don’t understand that now. It
would be interesting
to look into it. It sounds incredible. Why would I make a decision to
pay to go to —?
Oh, I know. Because at Princeton I didn’t have a scholarship but I had a
job as research
assistant to Professor Wigner.
Weiner:
You had a job!
Feynman:
45
You know what I mean? He gave me — they needed research — I would go to
the
graduate school, and I would get paid a little bit, for being research
assistant for
Professor Wigner. That’s great stuff. I mean, that’s a great
opportunity. And I’m
guessing now that that was the good thing that helped me decide not to
take a free
scholarship to Harvard, but to be able to be an assistant to Professor
Wigner was
something. I’m guessing. I think that’s the reason.
Weiner:
When did the assistantship start?
Feynman:
I don’t know, but this is what I remember. I do remember one other
thing. I remember
three opportunities. One was Harvard, which I threw away, directly, when
the feeler
came. It had something to do with this exam. Maybe it wasn’t Harvard. I
think it was
Harvard. The other was this — the other thing — I mean, I can’t remember
the order of
these things — but originally, when the time came to worry about
graduate school, I
went to Professor Slater who said, you know, “What are you going to do
about graduate
school?” I said, “I’m going to MIT.” He said, “No, I think it’s better
for a student to go
to some other school, to find out how the rest of the world looks,
instead of only to one
school.” “Yeah,” I said, “but MIT is the greatest school in science and
in engineering in
the whole country, and I want to go to this great school.” He says, “You
think this is the
greatest school in engineering and science in the country?” I said,
“Yeah.” He said,
“Then you must go to some other school.” He didn’t mean that it wasn’t,
he meant that
it wasn’t that far out of proportion, which is true. I mean, it’s good
to get a different
point of view. So he forced me not to come to MIT. I would have gone to
MIT if I’d
been allowed to, but he said he wouldn’t allow it, he wasn’t going to
let me go to MIT
for my graduate work. I must go somewhere else. And I got this
opportunity from
Princeton, and I went to Princeton.
Weiner:
Do you remember if you sought the opportunity? Made application?
Feynman:
I can’t remember. I don’t remember how I picked the schools or anything.
Weiner:
Do you know who was there at the time?
46
Feynman:
I knew that Wigner was there. I ended up, when I got there; I was the
research assistant
to Professor Wheeler, instead.
Weiner:
How’d that happen?
Feynman:
I don’t know, that was up in the administrative system of Princeton.
Weiner:
Had you thought of a specific field in physics?
Feynman:
Well, I was going to be in theoretical physics. By this time it was
clear. Something in
theoretical physics. But I never thought of theoretical physics as being
a field that’s
splitable, in those days — just anything in theory. Because, you see, my
mathematical
talents had finally overcome my experimental talents. I used to play
around, but I played
around less and less and did more and more analysis, mathematical, like
these theorems
and these papers, so I was becoming theoretical instead of experimental.
Weiner:
And these papers had been published, so they had a chance to judge you.
Feynman:
Yes. They must have gotten some letters from MIT. I don’t know how they
did the
choosing. I don’t know how I picked the school, either. Probably Slater
said, “A very
good school is Princeton.” I don’t know. Then I went and said Ok, or
something. I just
remember not considering the Harvard feeler. It was some informal
suggestion, because
they were trying to — you know — they didn’t want to make a big deal by
saying “It’s
you” and then you’d refuse and they’d have to pick somebody else. They
don’t like to do
that. It was a nice — I think –- anyway — I guess. That’s all I remember
about the
choosing of the next school.
Weiner:
Did you start immediately or take some time off in between?
47
Feynman:
I had the summer off.
Weiner:
You graduated in 1939, June, and then started Princeton that fall.
Feynman:
Yeah.
Weiner:
What happened with graduation, anything special? You’d completed
everything; you got
your degree, Bachelor of Science in Physics —
Feynman:
Right. The graduation. My parents came to the graduation. My girlfriend,
Arlene, came
to the graduation. We were probably engaged. I think we were engaged by
that time.
Weiner:
Yes, you’d indicated earlier.
Feynman:
Yeah. I drove. It was the first time. I had just learned to drive, and
I’d never driven so
far. I got sick on the way, from tensions. So when I arrived for the
graduation, I was ill
to my stomach, and went to the hospital. At MIT they put me up in the
solarium and fed
me good food. It only took a day or so to calm down. Then I was Ok. It
was the strain
of driving such a long distance. I never did do it before. I was Ok by
the time the
graduation came around. That’s all I remember of it. I remember my sweet
girl. So I
graduated. And I had to wear an academic outfit in order to graduate.
And also I
remember that they teased me, that Princeton didn’t know what they were
going to get
— that Princeton was an elegant place, and I was just, you know, a rough
guy, and so on.
Not really worry about it, but I did take it seriously, that there was a
matter of — you
know, Princeton has a certain elegance. And I was not an elegant person.
I mean.
Weiner:
48
Elegant, you mean in certain aristocratic sort of position?
Feynman:
Yes, exactly. I had no such feelings. I was not good in social things.
By this time, I’d
taken out a lot of girls, danced a lot and so on, and was easy about it.
I could go to
someone’s home and kind of invite myself to dinner, and stay around, and
I was
informally Ok, socially. But in any formal social situation, I was
really quite a clunk. I just
didn’t know, how to — just talking to people, I was Ok, but I was kind
of a rough, kind
of a simple character, as far as society goes. But I wasn’t worried
about it. I was just sort
of half-proud of it, you know, that kind funny feeling, but knowing that
I had to be a
little bit careful so I wouldn’t hurt people over there — you know, do
something real
dumb when I got to Princeton.
Weiner:
Did you win any awards, medals, citations on graduation at MIT?
Feynman:
I don’t know. I don’t remember.
Weiner:
It was different, then, from high school.
Feynman:
Yeah. I don’t remember.
Weiner:
— different standards, I mean different types of awards. The don’t have
every little —
Feynman:
— I don’t remember any particular awards.
Weiner:
What did you do that summer?
Feynman:
49
That was, I think, the summer that I worked with my friend, Bernie
Walker, in the
Metaphase Corporation, if I’m not mistaken. That summer — it was
interesting, because
of the world. Every summer I tried to get myself a job in the Bell
Telephone Laboratory.
I would go down. They hired a few students for summer. I would go down,
and Bill
Shockley was there. He had been a teacher at MIT, and he would escort me
around the
place. And he always tried to help me along, and showed me the
laboratories. It was
always pleasant to visit. Then we’d go to a restaurant and eat with him
and other guys.
But he never succeeded. He didn’t succeed, until some year, 1940 or
something, when I
was by that time in Princeton, when I finally did get a job, but we’ll
come to that. That
was one thing. I tried to get a job with Bell Telephone and never got
it. Then, during this
particular summer between schools, or perhaps the summer before, I can’t
be sure; I
wanted to get a job during the summer. And now I was pretty good in
physics already.
So I got letters, from Morse and from somebody, saying that I was good
in physics and
so on. But they had no contacts. They knew nobody to send me to.
Somebody in
electrical testing laboratory, testing electrical meters, and somebody
possibly in Bausch
and Lomb or some other place, optical company, for designing lenses —
that was the
level of physics in those days. It’s really interesting. But I went to
these two places and
they didn’t have an opportunity. I didn’t know where else to go. There
was nowhere to
go. There was no place to use that talent, anywhere. While I was
worrying about this, I
met my friend Walter on the beach. He had come back from France. He told
me he
could metal-plate anything. He picked a peach pit out of the sand, and
said, “I could
metal-plate this.” I said, “Yeah, but how do you get the contact?” “Ah,”
he said, “that’s
the secret,” and so on. Then after a while I got this job with him. He
offered me this job.
Weiner:
By this time he had this business?
Feynman:
He had this business, and I said I was looking for a job, so I got this
job with him, metal-
plating plastics.
Weiner:
Just checking that, that summer — I’ve got a note on it, I think.
Feynman:
I see — how did you find out about the Metaphase Corporation?
Weiner:
50
Oh, there’s an article in CURRENT BIOGRAPHY. Bits and pieces.
Feynman:
You’d better turn off this thing. You’re wasting time, telling about
that.
Weiner:
Ok. I think if you’re satisfied, that takes us to Princeton — which is
quite a different
period, although, of course, this is continuous development. If you want
we can continue
on now, or take a break.
Feynman:
We can continue on now. This business about being a sissy disappeared at
MIT. When I
got there — I’ll just mention it, because this was an important thing in
my life, even
though it’s not an important thing in any absolute sense — it bothered
me, when I was
in high school. When I got to MIT, I was afraid that my reputation would
come with me.
I realized that it was partly reputation, you understand what I mean?
When I wasn’t there
very long, there was a hazing. There was a fight always between
sophomores and
freshman, some kind of a mud fight, you know, standard thing on a
certain day, and this
year the sophomores decided to kidnap the freshmen and put them up in
the woods
somewhere in a big building, so that they were all tired out when the
day came — or
some kind of a dumb scheme. So they were quite successful. They would go
to one
fraternity after another, with a great group of sophomores, much bigger
than the number
of freshmen in any one place, and gather them and put them in trucks and
carry them
away. All right? When they came to kidnap the freshmen in our fraternity
— they were
guys that really knew how to fight and everything — they knew they were
beat, so they
just gave up. But I, not wanting to have anything happen, you know, I
fought like a
demon. I went crazy — I moved as fast as I — they couldn’t tie me up,
they had a
terrible time, guys sitting on my arms, sitting on my legs — because
really what I was
fighting was the possibility that I wasn’t a fighter, you know. And I
went nuts. So I got
the opposite reputation; never worried about it anymore after that. See,
they had no way
of knowing, because they had no connection with the high school, and
when they took
us up to the place and chained us to the floor, or whatever it was, I
was always picking
the lock of the chain, trying to get out, and always fighting. Every
time a sophomore
would accidentally get near me I’d grab his leg and try to knock him
over, and I’d get hit
in the head, but it didn’t make any difference. The whole point was, I
was fearful that
anybody might think — so I overdid it to the point that there was no
more problem. So
that disappeared. It also probably disappeared because of the confidence
I got because
this girl who was so beautiful and wonderful and everything else found
no fault of this
kind with me, see. That was also what you worried about — that girls
would think you
were a sissy. Dumb, but that’s life. So anyhow, for various reasons,
including my self-
confidence because I was in an institution where I was doing so well and
my girl was
51
falling in love with me and I was winning over all competitors with
somebody I loved as
much as I did, and the general success in life, I became very much
happier. Whereas in
the past I had had these little worries, I had no more little worries
any more. I haven’t
had any since. I don’t have any problems of this kind like I used to
have worry me —
how do I look, what am I like? So I got out of that when I was at MIT.
Probably the
usual growing up, although I have reasons, I claim to understand it a
little bit in terms of
this fight and so on. But anyway I did change at MIT, my personality, my
fear of girls;
my young and timid frightened and somewhat insecure character
disappeared.
Weiner:
What about your father’s reaction to this, the bearing fruit of his
early —?
Feynman:
I think he was quite happy with all this.
Weiner:
Anything that you could call manifestations? Did you write back and
forth to your family
while you were there?
Feynman:
Not very much. I wrote mostly to my girl. I guess I did write to my
mother all the time.
But I would visit very often, for vacations, and I remember once my
father saying to me
–- “Well,” he’d say, “young man, I helped you get started in science and
sent you to MIT
to learn something, so you should come back to your Old Man and teach
him
something.” He said, “There’s something I never understood that I want
you to explain
to me.” I say, “What?” He says, “They talk about an atom in an excited
state emits a
photon, which is like a particle.” I say, “Yeah.” He says, “Now, the
particle is not in the
atom ahead of time — huh? And is not in the atom afterwards — one less
photon —
huh? It just comes out, this particle? Explain that to me, please.” I
say, “Father, I
cannot!” He said, “I’ve been frustrated. All these years I worked —!” I
tried my best. I
said, “It’s like sound coming out of a box. The sound is not in there
ahead of time, but it
comes out —” He said, “Well, it’s the energy of the vibration?” “Yeah,
well, it’s the
energy that comes out in the form of the photon.” He says, “Yeah, but a
photon is a
particle, is it not?” I say, “In certain ways, yes, in certain ways —”
He says, “Come on,
now!” I never could get it straight for him. So he was not satisfied.
Weiner:
This was quite a different level from his earlier general —
52
Feynman:
Well, he’d read these things.
Weiner:
He was keeping up, on his own?
Feynman:
He’d read these things. He knew the idea, that light was like a
particle, that photons
existed, levels…
Weiner:
This is more than a normal, healthy interest in science.
Feynman:
No, his was pretty good. He read a lot. He read in the papers. He tried
to understand all
these things. And the things he couldn’t understand, he’d remember, and
maybe he
hoped that his son, after all this — I remember him definitely putting
the question first
that way. He says, “All right.” He says, “I pay for you to go to MIT,
and now I want the
answer.” He says, “That’s what I did it for, to get the answer to this
question.” I say,
“Well, you’re not going to get it,” you know.
Weiner:
You told me there was a small scholarship.
Feynman:
A small scholarship that got bigger. But it was small. They had to pay a
lot of money, to
keep me there.
Weiner:
About the Metaphase position — this was between MIT and Princeton —
anything
particularly interesting to say about it?
Feynman:
Well, no, except that I was happy because I was successful. The man had
just got the
53
process. He’d just found it. My father always suspected that he had
stolen it from
somebody in France. We have no way of knowing. Anyway, he had this
process. He had
not developed it, worked it out. It worked on one kind of plastic only.
He worked on
Bakelite, sandblasting certain things, and so on, and he would
precipitate silver in a silver
solution, and then hold, and then plate. The problem was, it should
hold. If you tried it
on something like cellulose acetate, it didn’t hold. Anyway, what I
contributed was, first,
I discovered ways of doing it with many more plastics, by not just
sandblasting but by
chemical disintegration of the surface, in the case of cellulose acetate
by sodium
hydroxide, and so on. So I got it to work on more plastics. Because
nobody had worked
on it, you see. It was easy. Then, one of the problems was that the
silver precipitation, a
large amount of silver precipitated in solution, not only on the object.
He was going to
license this process out. That was the plan. And then it would be a bit
complicated about
recovery. They couldn’t let them recover, because they would learn too
much about the
process. They’d have to send the bottles back to us and so on. So I
found that by using
formaldehyde instead of sugar, that I could precipitate a hundred
percent of the silver
much more efficiently on the surface — in fact, so perfectly that there
was no silver left
in the solution worth recovering. So that simplified everything. So I
made a lot — I got a
kick out of it, because I was able to solve a number of problems for the
company.
Ultimately the company failed. Just at the time when I — at the end of
the summer —
they had at last got one job, licensed it to somebody to metal-plate
plastic pens. As a
matter of fact, it was very successful. They sold a large number of
these pens. They were
all over the place. But in a month or two, the layer began to blister on
a lot of the pens
and come off. The problem of solving that — what caused that and how to
get rid of it
— was not solved by my friend Bernie. I wasn’t there at the time. But he
didn’t solve it
in time. It was probably solvable. My guess is that it was some special
impurity in the
filler of the plastic that was not very important, that if they would
play around with the
plastic — anyway, never mind. But I did pretty good when I was there.
Meanwhile he
was out running around trying to sell this thing, see. It was an amusing
job. But there
were only three of us in the company — he, his father or somebody who
was in charge
of selling or something only, and me, the bottle washer —
Weiner:
— you were on salary? —
Feynman:
— yeah — a guy to help me, Bernie’s brother, who helped me wash and
clean up and
take care of the laboratory. Just four or five altogether in the
company.
Weiner:
You were paid, just for the summer.
54
Feynman:
Yes. I mention this because of an amusing story which I will tell you,
if you want. Many
years later at Los Alamos a new man came whose name was Frederick de
Hoffman, now
president of General Atomics, down here in San Diego. He came, and he
came from
England, where he had been for a while during the war, and he told me a
story — that
he had been working with a group trying to find a way of metal-plating
plastics. I just sat
there with a straight face. He was just telling me — what he’d been
doing in England —
it happened to come out. I said, “How did you do?” He said, “Oh, we had
quite a big
group,” and he mentioned about 10 or 20 people or something who were
working and
doing different experiments. I said, “Well, what happened?” “Well, we
were behind. We
finally decided to give up.” “Behind what?” He said, “There was a great
big company in
the United States, the Metaphase Corporation, that was doing it.” I
said, “Oh.” (This is
immoral, this thing.) Straight as anything, I said, “Oh. What made you
think they were
such a big company?” “Oh, they had great big advertisements. They had
full page
advertisements. They had articles in the plastics magazines.” They did,
they had worked
out articles with their products and big advertisements about what they
could do. They
weren’t selling anything — just five guys, you see. So I said to him,
“Tell me, just tell me
something. You people in England look at America. I wonder what your
view of it really
is. Would you tell me what you would think the chief research scientist
of that company
would look like, how he would operate, and so on?” He said, “Sure. He
would have an
office, glass walls, metal this and that, there would be several
laboratories, he might have
20 or 30 men When they had special problems they would come in to him
with the
problem, and they would ask, and he would suggest something to do,” and
so on and so
on and so on. I said, “You know, you’re talking to the chief research
chemist of the
Metaphase Corporation.” That was great. I mean, it was one of those
great moments. I
told him that there were five guys, that you can’t believe advertising.
It sounds great but
there’s nothing there.
Weiner:
Well, that took you through the summer, a pleasant summer, and to
Princeton. And
that’s a long story.
Feynman:
Yeah. I think I’d better rest.
Weiner:
We’re resuming now after a break for dinner. I think we have reached
Princeton, in the
fall of 1939. So let’s take it from there.
55
Feynman:
All right. I’ll try to remember a few things of the first few days. One
of the things in the
first few days had to do with the social life. My father took me down
there, I think.
Anyway, I wasn’t there long before some man came to me and said,
“Professor, the
Dean is having a tea. We’d like you to come,” and so on, “and ask your
room-mate.” My
room-mate was a man I didn’t know, named Lou Siret who’s a chemist of
rather
reasonable renown. So I asked him, and he thought it was a great idea. I
was scared
because of this same thing I was talking about — I’m not so good at
this. “The Dean’s
tea” — it sounded so silly, you know, and high class. He took it in
stride, because he was
that kind of guy. And we went to the Dean’s tea the first day I was
there — it was a
Sunday, I guess — and the Dean, Dean Eisenhart, was in the line going
in. I told him my
name, and he said, “Oh yes, I know, you’re from MIT,” and so on. I was
kind of pleased
by that. Then, when I went in, I was looking around, where to sit and
everything, I was
concerned with all these matters, and there were some girls around. I
felt rather stiff.
Then I heard a voice behind me say, “Would you like cream or lemon in
your tea, Sir?”
It was Mrs. E., and I said, “Both, please, “-– absentmindedly — and then
there was a
nervous laugh that I could hear and she said, “Surely you’re joking, Mr.
Feynman!” Then
I had to turn around and figure, what was I joking? What was the
question? It was really
quite — so I started out on the wrong foot with the social things. At
any rate, another
thing was, I went down to the town to buy supplies and I was carrying a
wastepaper
basket and some other things, and Eisenbud, who was a theoretical
physicist — we met
— he passed me on the street. “Ah,” he said, “you look like you’re going
to be a good
theoretical physicist. You’ve brought the right tools — there’s an
eraser and a
wastebasket.” I remember all these things, because the first days of
going to a place are
very impressive. Now, another thing, the reason I went to Princeton was
that I had seen
that in the papers in the PHYSICAL REVIEW there were lots of articles
from Princeton
— a lot of work, good work, from Princeton. I knew that.
Weiner:
You were reading the journals, at MIT?
Feynman:
Oh, yes. By that time I was looking at the journals — which reminds me
of something I
don’t know if I should go back to.
Weiner:
Oh, sure.
Feynman:
56
Very interesting, now that I remember, at MIT. It’s interesting for the
question — let me
go back — about something that Welpin and I did. We would talk together
all this time,
you know; then we’d develop these things. And we finally decided one day
that the way
to make great discoveries is to work on problems in the forefront.
Right? And the way to
know where the forefront is to take out the most recent things of
importance, and we
would work on it, and we would, so to speak, do something. So we went
around and we
found two things that were important, as we thought — one was some kind
of a wave
tensor calculus, or something like that, published by some Japanese guy,
and the other
was the application of tensors to electrical engineering, by a man named
Krohn or
something like that. We thought this was forefront stuff. So I took the
electrical
engineering tensor business. He took the wave vector calculus or
whatever it was. He
studied those papers as best he could, to try to work them out, and I
read the stuff about
electrical engineering — because we figured all we’d have to do, you
know, is make one
more step on top of what the other guys did. And we learned a lesson, of
course — that
first, we were chasing the wrong… The wave tensor thing was nothing. It
was some
crazy nonsense that never meant anything. The application to electrical
machinery — I
don’t know how important it is in electrical engineering. It seems to me
that those
papers are known, because when I mention them people know them, so it
may have
been of some importance, but it was really just reformulation of certain
electrical
engineering things, in a rather formal way, in tensors instead of
equations. It didn’t seem
to me at the end to be anything. So we failed, but we learned an
important lesson about
how to do research. Because there are many people who feel that the way
to do is to find
out what problem the big guys are working on, and work right there. It
isn’t such a good
scheme. You can be chasing the wrong thing, if you haven’t thought about
it yourself.
Weiner:
Getting back to Princeton — you said you’d read —
Feynman:
— I had read the journals, yes, and I knew things that were going on
because I’d seen
the articles, and I knew that from the Princeton cyclotron research lots
of work came,
good work. I also knew that at MIT they had a marvelous cyclotron. They
were very
proud of it. MIT was self-confident and proud, and everybody at MIT
thinks it’s great,
and I thought that it was great. It was essentially gold-plated, if you
know what I mean
— I don’t mean literally — and the control board was in another room,
with special
glass panels and knobs and everything. It was very nice. I’d seen the
cyclotron. But I
knew from the journals that not much was coming from the MIT cyclotron,
relatively,
and therefore the Princeton cyclotron must really be something — you
know? Of
course, the MIT one was big, in two rooms, and so on. So I got to
Princeton, and the
first thing, when I was there and I went to the physics building, I
asked immediately, “I
want to see the cyclotron” — because I was very excited. And they said
to go down in
the basement and the room down at the end of the basement — which seemed
to me
57
incredible, stuffed away…Anyway, I went down in the basement, and I
walked into the
room where the cyclotron was, at the end of the basement. And it wasn’t
15 seconds
before I understood why the Princeton cyclotron had lots of results, why
Slater had told
me to go to another school — I understood the whole thing. The whole
mirage, the
whole idealism of MIT collapsed. Because I recognized something in that
room, which
was the same as in my laboratory at home. The cyclotron was in the
middle of the room.
There were wires all over the place, hanging in the air, just strung up
by somebody.
There were water things — there had to be automatic water coolers, and
little switches,
so if the water stopped it would automatically go on, and there were
some kind of pipes
and you could see, you know, water dripping. There was wax all over the
place, hanging,
where they were fixing leaks. The room was full of cans of film at crazy
angles on tables.
You see, completely different than at MIT. A place where somebody was
working!
Where the guy who was working was close to the machine, could fix it
with his own
hands. It was not in an insulated box with knobs. I understood it
immediately, because
I’d had this experience in laboratory. It looked like my kid laboratory,
where I had
everything all over the place and the tools were put down where I last
had ‘em. And I
realized that this was really research, and that I had been fooled —
that good engineering
design is what they had at MIT, in a kind of abstract way, but not the
real work with the
machine, that they were separated from it. I understood it very quickly,
as soon as I saw
the machine. I loved it. I knew I was in the right place. They were guys
of the old — the
way I had felt when I was a kid. Fiddling is the answer. Experimenting
is fiddling around.
It’s not an organized program, elegance — it’s impossible. I noticed it.
I mean, I realized
right away that Slater was right. I had thought that was the best school
in the world, and
here was a thing I’d imagined must be three times as great, ten times as
large, and four
times as elegant, in order to get that much more research. But as a
matter of fact, it was
smaller and completely inelegant, and that was the secret. So I loved
Princeton right
away.
Weiner:
Reminds me of your English friend’s description of Metaphase, his image
from the ads.
Feynman:
Yes. Exactly. The same idea. The fact of the matter is that the
Princeton cyclotron had a
fire, because of all those wires hanging in space, and they had a great
deal of trouble on
account of that fire, so in a certain sense I was wrong.
Weiner:
Who was running the Princeton cyclotron then?
Feynman:
58
I don’t know. I think there was a man, Delsassa, who was important. But
I don’t know
who all — I don’t know the men’s names. I don’t remember the men’s
names. But I was
of course friends right away, met people and so on — all the graduate
students — great
place.
Weiner:
Where did the rest of them come from? You didn’t know any of them
before?
Feynman:
No. Nobody. In Princeton they all lived in the same place, the Graduate
College, so
called — in a building, all in one place, where all the graduates in
every field, except
theology, lived together, and ate supper in the same great dining room,
with academic
gowns which we had to wear — which was one of those things that bothered
me a little
bit. When I saw the other guys, though, with their torn-up academic
gowns, I realized
something that anybody who’s mature knows, that the elegance, the social
elegance of
people, when they’re in socially elegant positions is not — there’s
always a few of them
who inside are smiling at the whole thing too, you know. It isn’t true
that it’s very fancy
and everybody believes in it, and that you’re some kind of a funny guy
because you don’t
quite get in the swing. There are a lot of people in it that are
smiling, or that even are
elegant and superior, that understand what it is — that it’s a show. But
you don’t know
that at first. Anyhow, we ate together, living in the same houses and
buildings, which was
a very pleasant thing. There were so many people to talk to, to discuss
so many things, in
science and archeology and religion or whatever it is. We’d argue with
the Catholic —
what was he, a Catholic priest — and so on, a guy. Yeah, lots of stuff.
So it was very
good. Lots of conversations in graduate school. OK. Now, when I got
started, I had this
job with Professor Wheeler, instead of Wigner. I don’t know how that
happened.
Weiner:
You were just told when you came there that this was it.
Feynman:
Yeah. Then I had to meet Professor Wheeler. The first time I met him, I
was amazed at
how young he looked. He didn’t look very old to me.
Weiner:
Was he an assistant professor then or associate?
Feynman:
59
I don’t know. We met, and then we had to discuss some things, that first
time. He’s an
interesting man. The first time, he said, “Well, we have so and so much
time, we’ll meet
at such and such a time, we have so much time to discuss things.” came
into his office
and sat down, and he took out his pocket watch and placed it on the
table, so he could
see how much time — and then he would explain what we should worry
about. A very
nice fellow, with whom I’d learn, and so on. So I figured — the next
time, I’d bought
myself a dollar watch, see? So he came in, put his watch down on the
table. I took my
watch, put it on the table. I was imitating him, a little bit, you see.
And he laughed very
hard. We laughed at each other. Then we got a silly streak. (I tell it
only because of the
way you people are.) Like two teenage kids, you know — they can’t stop
laughing, you
know? One makes the other one laugh by making funny noises. It’s a
ridiculous thing.
We both collapsed and we couldn’t work for quite a while. “Look, we have
to get serious
here and get going —” “Yes, Sir” — you know — hah hahhah! Stupid! But
that’s the
way we started our relationship, and we were very good friends,
naturally, as a result of
this idiocy at the beginning. And we’ve always been very good friends.
Now, with regard
to the work with Professor Wheeler, I can’t remember everything, all the
things we
worried about. We worried about a number of problems that he would give
me to play
with, associated with scattering theory, and some problems that I know
specifically what
it was — if you want the problem?
Weiner:
Yes.
Feynman:
Dumond and somebody else, Jessie Dumond —
Weiner:
— did some work with Kirkpatrick —
Feynman:
Possibly Kirkpatrick—had worked out a way that by x-rays you could
figure out the
electron momentum distribution in an atom. It’s not Kirkpatrick. The
electron
distribution in an atom. And he had made the argument by a sort of
semi-classical view,
that if you had x-ray static moving electrons the frequency is shifted,
so that the shape of
the Compton line tells you the momentum distribution of the electrons.
And he thought
it was very interesting because it was a direct measure of momentum
distribution, that
the wave functions, Fourier, transform a square. And it sort of
demonstrates the
dynamic atom, in a very pleasant, in a nice way, a direct way. Wheeler
said, “We have to
demonstrate, we should demonstrate to what extent this is exactly true,”
because he used
60
the WK — he used the Fermi-Thomas model of the atom, in order to make
his
argument, and that isn’t really quite legitimate, because you had to
think of this scattering
from each little element, and one element will scatter, like a
statistical way. It’s not clear.
It’s all right for the energy atom, but is it all right for the
scattering? And so he set me
the problem, to find out to what approximation its right, and with a
great deal of
complicated effort, I showed everything was right if they used what they
called a WKB
approximating of the wave functions. I said, I showed. He probably
suggested the way of
doing it. Anyway, I was doing work of this kind for him. And this led us
into the
problems of scattering, theory of a scattering of electrons and so on,
from atoms. We
kept talking about scattering, and how quantum mechanics could really be
described by a
succession of scatterings, that the Schrodinger equation meant that a
particle keeps on
scattering in succession, a view which I still hold as a useful one for
looking at it. He
wanted — he got rather ambitious — he gets these periods, I realize, of
ambition, in
which he’s going to rewrite quantum mechanics entirely in terms of
scattering, and we
start to set up the ideas to do it. We didn’t do it, but I remember
discussing it. I would
often go to his home. He was a very nice fellow, inviting me for dinner,
and I’d meet his
children and his wife, and then we’d sit afterwards and work on
something or other and
talk about something, and so on. Now, of course, the graduate school
itself, where I was
— how it ran — as far as I can remember, I can’t remember anything being
assigned.
No classes that you had to take.
Weiner:
No courses?
Feynman:
No, not that were required, as far as I know. I mean, this is my memory.
I don’t
remember anything required. I remember that there was some examination
at a certain
point which I had to take, preliminary exam or something.
Weiner:
Qualifier.
Feynman:
I suppose — for the Ph.D.
Weiner:
What about a Master’s?
61
Feynman:
Maybe there was a Master’s or something. I don’t remember very well.
Weiner:
You didn’t take a Master’s. You went straight for the Ph.D. —
Feynman:
No. Right. So there was some examination, but there were no required
courses, which
was good for me. I liked that. I did take a course by Professor Wigner
on solid state, and
Professor Wheeler gave a course on nuclear physics. These sorts of
things I really needed
at this stage. As his assistant, I took notes, to write up the notes of
the nuclear physics.
Near the end of the course — I just remember this thing about the notes
— he was
explaining a relatively complicated formula that Professor Wigner had
worked out for
symmetry groups in the nucleus. There was a certain quantity, Chi, which
was the
characteristic of the group representation of the something or other —
all of which
doesn’t mean anything to me. So I figured that the number had to do with
the amount of
interactions between particles in the same state and different states,
so I made a little
diagram — which, it turns out, was equivalent to the Young diagram,
group theory —
for this problem, which counted the number of neutrons and protons and
squared,
counted how many pairs there were in anti-symmetric states, and how many
there were
in symmetric, and subtracted, and got the same number for chi — it was
clear, which
told me the difference between the number of interactions between
electrical particles in
the same state, and those in which the function was anti- symmetric.
Some of them gave,
by an empirical way, you see, not deeply understanding what this was,
but by half-
guessing and by trial and error, I cooked up a rule which gave me the
same answer as
Professor Wigner but seemed to me much simpler to operate. It was much
simpler to
operate. I’ve used the same scheme again and again, and it’s a way of
developing new
knowledge for me.
Weiner:
What was Wheeler’s reaction to this?
Feynman:
Wheeler was very pleased, because his attempt to explain the subject, in
his course, had
ended up by simply saying, “It’s a result of group theory, that this is
the formula that
Professor Wigner’s demonstrated,” and was unable to explain in a direct
way. When he
saw this thing, he thought it was fine. So he sent me in to Professor
Wigner, and I went
in and said, “Why don’t you do it this simple way?” Whereupon I got a
very long answer.
He was good. I got a long answer from him which I did not understand, in
which he
62
claimed that although I — he studied it. He took a few days off about
it. This bothered
me. He came back and told me that although I got the right answer, the
method was not
legitimate, for some reason. This I don’t understand, and didn’t
understand. I don’t
understand what the matter with it was. As a matter of fact, as far as I
know, I believe
that other people later showed that this was legitimate, although they
weren’t just
checking mine, but for some other application somebody else found the
same thing. And
it is all right. It was just a — this was very happy and exciting for
me, because now I was
discovering things, you see, that were very close to the present time.
All this time I’d
been discovering things, always closer, and it was very close to the
present time. It wasn’t
an important thing, but it was fun to notice that I could do what
Professor Wigner could
do, easier — although he claimed I was doing it illegitimately, I still
thought I was right.
It was half logical, suggesting there ought to be a difference like
this, and calculating the
difference, then discovering how to double something before I took the
difference or
something like that. Then it would work — you know? Some little
something.
Weiner:
What kind of a lecturer or teacher was he?
Feynman:
I liked his course in solid state. I thought it was a good course. I
remember many things
from it, ideas, why is a solid a solid, and all these deep ideas at the
beginning. It was a
good course. I don’t remember any other courses.
Weiner:
Just those two?
Feynman:
Those are the only ones I remember taking. This sounds incredible but I
don’t think I —
you’d have to look at some records to find out if I were in any other
courses.
Weiner:
Was it in your first year when you took them, or second?
Feynman:
I think I took those when I first came, somewhere in the beginning. I
don’t know. I
don’t remember my education in the graduate school. I don’t think I had
to do anything.
What I think was the education was to worry about problems, to talk to
friends — see, I
63
did a lot of things. I would hear that Eisenbud was working on a
deuteron, and that he
had a terrible calamity, Wigner had made some suggestion as to why
something or other
in the deuteron, why he had a quadruple or something, and it turns out
it was a mistake,
after a year and a half, and that you can’t get a quadruple moment from
this. And all the
graduate students would be standing around and commiserating with all
the bad luck in
the world, you know, that this could happen to a student, but that’s the
way life is, the
professor makes a suggestion, and it turns out not to be a good one,
that’s your bad luck.
I don’t know what this thing was, but we would talk, you see. I don’t
know what this
thing was, but we would talk, you see. I’d try to understand what the
problem was and
what the logic was, about everything, you see, that was going on. I
remember a distinct
thing at Princeton, that somebody came to me — they were very interested
in the fact
that there was capture from the L shell but not from the K shell, in
some element. And
that’s very strange. How could that be? How would you capture it? There
are all these
formulas for K shell capture rates, and how would you get an L shell
capture rate? It was
a very interesting puzzle, because I don’t know how to calculate
anything, at the time —
you know, not much. It was the beginning of real stuff, real research.
Of course, the
reason it was from L and not from K was that the energy wasn’t enough to
pick up a K
electron and leave a hole there. It was a small energy. That was easy.
But then — that
was pretty clear — but the question was, what was the rate from an L
shell? Everybody
had always given the formulas for the K shell. It doesn’t sound like
much to me now, it’s
so easy to do, I can do it in my head, but in those days, to really do a
real problem —
take a standard formula from somebody and make it independently, a new
one, just as
good as the guy who discovered the other one —! I was very impressed
with my new
abilities, you see, that I was learning the real objects, that really
connected with research
with the cyclotron. I was getting near the front, you see. I was very
happy with these
little things. Then there were some fellows doing research with
magnetism, some friends,
and they had ellipsoids, and they would explain it, and I learned about
demagnetization
factors and so on. I believe, although I can’t guarantee it, that most
of my education as a
graduate student was through my own studying, through worrying about
problems,
through talking to friends, and very little courses. And that’s the way
it was in those days.
Weiner:
How many graduate students were there in the department?
Feynman:
Not very many. There weren’t a real lot. There must have been — I’ll bet
you it’s in the
neighborhood of 20 to 30.
Weiner:
So you knew just about everyone?
64
Feynman:
Oh, yeah, you knew everybody.
Weiner:
How about professors? You mentioned Wigner, Wheeler —
Feynman:
Yeah, you got to know most of the professors.
Weiner:
Who were the other ones there?
Feynman:
I don’t remember. There was Ladenburg, who was from the old school. I
talked to him
about things. There was Robertson, who was there for some length of
time. And then
there were guys down at the cyclotron who were sort of — they must have
been
assistant professors — somewhere between graduate students and
professors, but you
never cared which was which down there.
Weiner:
How about Smythe, was he there?
Feynman:
Yes, he was there.
Weiner:
Compton? Karl Compton?
Feynman:
No, Compton wasn’t there. But I’m guessing. You might find on the
records that I took
a lot of courses. I’d be interested, because I cannot remember. I do not
remember
studying at Princeton, but I do know that I got a lot of information; I
learned an awful
lot at Princeton, through my assistantship with Wheeler, doing these
problems. I was
working all the time, about one thing or another. And then there were
the other graduate
65
students in other fields, such as in the psychology department or the
astronomy
department, who’d ask me a problem. See, I was doing something all the
time. They’d
say, “Listen, there’s this theory of statistics about when something is
bigger than
something, you throw out something — you know, you’ re supposed to take
a mean,”
and so on. “Now, we know, in astronomy, when we measure the intensity of
starlight”
or something like that “that every once in a while, something impossible
happens, like
the plate doesn’t develop, or there’s a cloud in the way of the
telescope, or something
crazy. Now, what are we legally allowed to do? It seems incredible we
should take that
and average it with the others to find the average. So we want to throw
it out. But
sometimes we don’t know the cause. The whole plate is dim. But we know
it’s cockeyed.
So can you make a rational method of analyzing statistically how and
when we can throw
out data very far off?” You see? Now, that problem’s been solved by
other people.
That’s not the point. I was doing things like this all the time. And I
worked it out, I
know now, in a completely right way. Right way of dealing with this
problem and the
theory of statistics. And so on. So there were discussions, and talking
among the
graduate students, and perpetual mental challenges from all directions,
one thing after
another, that I was working out. And learning by the process — I think —
and I don’t
believe I took many courses.
Weiner:
How about experimental work? Did you have anything to do with the
cyclotron at all?
Feynman:
No. No.
Weiner:
You weren’t in the lab all this time at Princeton?
Feynman:
No. I wasn’t. I was in theoretical. My assistantship was with Wheeler,
so I was doing
theoretical work. I think I essentially learned from Wheeler. It’s
possible that I learned
somewhere else. There were little things. I got a reputation after a
while — I was good at
doing integrals, calculating integrals, if it was possible, and all
that. I remember one
particular thing. I saw on the board an integral. I didn’t pay much
attention to it. I had
been on various boards — in other words, all the mathematicians were
trying it. And
then Wheeler said, “Oh, by the way, I’ve got an integral. I haven’t
showed it to you. I’ve
been showing it to everybody else. Can you do it?” I looked at it, this
integral, that all
these guys had been working on — I looked at it. He said, “Can you do
it?” I said,
“Well, would it be all right if it comes” — it’s a double integral, see
–- “would it be all
right if it comes out a Bessel function?” He said, “I’m not responsible
for the answer.” I
66
said, “All right.” Then I came back in an hour —”It’s an integral of a
Bessel function.” It
was easy to express. I had worked it when nobody else around could do
it. This was the
result of Mr. Bater’s giving me that book.
Weiner:
The ADVANCED CALCULUS?
Feynman:
Right, because the kind of advanced mathematics that was involved in
doing an integral
of this kind of stuff was in that book. I had had, you see, unlike most
of the others —
certainly not in the mathematics department, they never do much work,
you know — I
had had five, six, by this time six years that I knew that stuff, you
see. And that’s a rather
old guy — I’d been doing these kinds of things, you see — whereas other
students had
just about learned it a year or two before. Because of Bater, I had
learned this stuff
earlier. I was really good at it by this time. This was technical stuff.
It wasn’t anything
brilliant, it’s just that I was facile at mathematics, mathematical
manipulating—like a guy
that’s good at doing arithmetic fast in his head. That kind of stuff.
It’s very useful to be
able to do.
Weiner:
In setting up problems as well?
Feynman:
Yeah, you can check yourself out. Yes. You see, this has always been
useful to me. When
I was in high school, we had an algebra team, and I was on the algebra
team. It was a
crazy thing, where we’d meet together with another school, and they’d
open from an
envelope problems that somebody invented somewhere, and they’d announce,
“This
problem is 45 seconds,” or maybe “two and a half minutes,” and they
would write it on
the board. You had 15 seconds to think and then you’d work like a demon,
and you’d
put a circle around your answer. It didn’t make any difference how you
got the answer.
This is what I loved. I used to practice, to do this, and I would get
very very fast. The
ability to do algebra fast, which later became the ability to do
calculus fast, always stood
me in good stead. I told you that at MIT, it didn’t bother me to do
these terrible, these
organized where I knew the subject, because I could do it easily. It was
because I could
do it fast. They’d have a set of problems to do, you see, that would
involve a lot of
manipulating, and the ordinary guy would have to do a lot of tedious
finagling. But for
me, I could do it very quickly. So it was easy to get rid of the
homework. I always kept
up this ability to work very quickly with the mathematics, so as to get
rid of the
homework. I still had it when I was at Princeton.
67
Weiner:
At Princeton, working with Wheeler, you got there in 1939. In 1941, I
don’t know what
part of the year it was, whether it was the early part of the year or
not, you made a
reference in one of your published papers to a presentation of a paper
with Wheeler at
the Cambridge meeting of the American —
Feynman:
— all right, now you want to know how that developed.
Weiner:
Yes, unless it’s skipping stages.
Feynman:
No, I’m just thinking. I don’t think it is skipping anything, except the
personal life
business.
Weiner:
Well, we can get back to that.
Feynman:
Right. There was a problem —
Weiner:
— it was February, 1941 —
Feynman:
— never mind, I know what you’re talking about. When I was at MIT, I had
read a lot. I
didn’t explain that. I forgot to. I was in the library a lot. I read
advanced books. That’s
the way I taught myself, I read lots of stuff — I was very avid for
reading and studying
and learning. I read about general relativity, I learned it from a book,
and I read a lot of
quantum mechanics along with Welpin, and all this stuff, by reading. And
so I read the
advanced books on the problems of the day, which were quantum
electrodynamics, the
problems of the interaction of the two electrons according to
relativity, and retardation
in an atom was not solved, really, as far as they — it got infinities,
the theory had
infinities, had self-energy difficulties. They had these great
formulations in Dirac’s book
68
and in Heidler’s. I couldn’t quite read the books. They were too hard
for me. But I did
know what they said about the problem, that they couldn’t solve it, and
I also got vague
ideas about what was the matter with the problem, that it had something
to do with the
infinite self-energy of the electron, and another infinity that came
from the infinite
number of degrees of freedom in the field. I almost parroted the words
in these books. I
knew about the self-energy, because I could understand that. That was
the famous
classical thing, that the energy of a point charge is infinite. It was
still in quantum
mechanics. And the infinite number of degrees of freedom problem I
didn’t understand
exactly. I thought it was the half H omega that every oscillator state
has, added to
infinity, would be an infinite amount of energy. You know what I’m
talking about?
Weiner:
I’m following the outline of it. Go ahead.
Feynman:
Each mode in a cavity was supposed to turn into a harmonic oscillator,
and the energy at
the lowest state of harmonic oscillator is half the frequency times h,
and there’s an
infinite number of modes. You add together, you get infinity for the
energy. But this is
irrelevant — a shift to zero of energy and get rid of it — but I didn’t
know that. I
thought that was something to do with the infinite number of the degrees
of freedom.
Well, I got an idea at MIT which seemed to me quite evident — first,
that an electron
doesn’t act on itself. That’s crazy. It’s a silly idea, an electron acts
on itself. It can only act
on another charge. Why make it act on itself? The other thing was that
where part of the
trouble was — these fools who made the energy act on itself — and
second, they said
that the field had an infinite number of degrees of freedom. But any
field I ever saw was
generated by a source, by a mechanical object. There’s no other field.
And it’s not free in
any way. It’s completely determined by the object. I was thinking
classically. So there
isn’t any degrees of freedom more than the degrees of freedom of the
charges which had
generated the field, and that’s a finite, not infinite, like the
infinite number of modes in a
box, you see. So I figured, that’s all going to be simple. I could
straighten it out. I won’t
have any field. I’ll have a direct interaction, where the only so-called
field allowed is
exactly the field generated by the charge, so that there’s not really a
field, it’s just a
mathematical thing. When you shake one charge, it drives another.
Delayed. It’s not that
something necessarily goes between the two, it’s just — that made a
complicated thing,
all that field with its freedom is a lot of baloney; as you shake this
charge, it pulls on the
other. And this pulls back. Not this pulls itself. It seemed to me that
was clearly the
physics. I explained it. I talked to Welpin about it. Someday, I would
straighten these
guys out. This attitude about these guys, though, always kept with me. I
always felt, if
they said that they couldn’t solve the problem, that they didn’t know
anything about it,
you see. It wasn’t right, necessarily, to read all the details of what
they had done. It was
no more necessary to read what they did, because they didn’t know the
answers, so
therefore I could fool around with it myself.
69
Weiner:
You didn’t even examine their starting points?
Feynman:
No. I know quantum mechanics and I knew relativity. That’s all they had.
I mean, that’s
the starting point. That’s all they really had, and the Maxwell
equations of
electrodynamics, and they put them together, with their physical ideas,
and they ground
out all this stuff, and it didn’t work. All right. I’d start. I know
what the thing — there’s
nothing else to it, but the quantum mechanics and electromagnetism. It’s
not necessary
to read all that stuff. The problem is clear. It’s hard to — really, you
are in the same
position as the other guy. What else did they have? Nothing. I knew they
had nothing
else but quantum mechanics, relativity, and the Maxwell equations, and I
could permit
myself to change the Maxwell equations in a region in which experiment
hadn’t yet —
could not notice a difference if I wanted, say, short distances—or
something. I was free,
where if I’d followed them — I don’t know. Maybe relativity falls for
some region that
we haven’t measured yet. You know. It’s always possible. So I knew what
the problem
was. Anyway, that was my general idea for a solution, which I had at
MIT. Well, by the
time I got to graduate school, I had learned that there was a serious
trouble with the fact
that an electron does not act on itself — that the action of an electron
on itself was used
to explain the force of radiation resistance — that is, when you
accelerate a charge, you
have to do more work on it than you do if it’s neutral, because after
all you have to
generate the radiated energy. And this work is done against what force?
I mean, what are
you pushing against? The electron acts on itself. So if I have electrons
acting only on
other electrons, I’m stuck with the radiation resistance problem. I knew
about it. I had
learned that that was where I was in trouble. So Wheeler had given me
some problem
that was too difficult, that I fiddled around with some idea to explain
— to describe
electrons and positrons in paired production, and you don’t have to have
spin a half
because you have two particles, and maybe the mathematics is simpler.
The Dirac
equation always seemed a little obscure. This was a hope to make it look
easier. It was
too complicated. It didn’t make a simple representation. But I was
working on that, and
kind of giving up. And so I fiddled on my own stuff, and one day when I
came to his
office to report, I said, “Well, I’ll tell you frankly, I got pie-eyed,
I couldn’t get anywhere.
But I want to tell you some idea that I was working on,” and I described
the physical
idea. What I had worked on was this. Suppose there are two charges in
the world. You
shake one, it shakes the other, but that shaking would generate a field
back on this and
shake that. And so when I shook this, and the other would make an action
back on this
charge, that might be force of radiation resistance. So Wheeler said
immediately to me
that the force would depend upon the mass and the charge and the
distance of the other
charge — in fact, inversely as the square of the distance of the other
charge. I thought
surely he had done the problem, but he just saw all that right away.
Then, if there were
charges in all directions, the answer would come out, infinity, if you
integrate. I had
70
noticed that too — the inverse square over all space gives — and so on.
Then he said,
“And another trouble is — you see, you can’t have radiation resistance
depend upon the
charges, it depends only on the other charges, it depends only on the
charges to
accelerate it, how it’s accelerated.” And he said, “And the other
trouble is that the action
back is delayed. It comes back not at the time when you shake the
charge, but there’s a
delay here, and there’s a delay back.” Oh, I hit my head. Oh, what a
dope, you see.
Because it was clear then, I’d only described reflected light, which
goes out, hits
something, comes back. But Wheeler went right on from there and said,
“But, there’s
also the advance wave solutions of Maxwell’s equation, and maybe the
reaction back is
by advance wave. They would act at the right time.” Then he went through
a little idea,
that perhaps, “Suppose we had a medium around here infinite in all
directions, and that
the action in the medium is by retarded waves — it would slow it up by
the index of
refraction — but the action back is by advance waves, not slowed up by
the index.” I
said, “Why?” “I don’t know, let’s try.” And then we could calculate the
effect back, from
all the charges in the medium, and it didn’t integrate to infinity now
because of the index.
The phase was slowly changing. You see, the retarded wave was changing
its phase as it
went deeper in, but the advance waves coming back didn’t have this phase
retardation,
so it was getting out of phase. So by taking just the contribution in
the first wave zone,
so to speak, Huygen’s principle, we estimated how much it would be, and
it was the right
order. It looked like the right thing. It was independent of the masses
and charges and
density and so on in the medium, and it looked like the right action
back. All this was
done sort of like a continuous lecture, when I’d come in like this.
Weiner:
This was the same day? This was one event?
Feynman:
Just one event. I’d go into his office and I’d tell him this idea, and
that it doesn’t work,
and he says to me, “Yes, it doesn’t work, it depends on the mass and the
charge, and it
could be advanced waves, let’s try this,” and we worked it out and it’s
about right. Maybe
an hour, a half hour. It was very exciting, you see. He said, “Now, you
go home and you
figure out what proportion of advanced and retarded waves it is, and
also try to figure
out what happens to the advanced effects if we put a test charge next to
this one,
because the test charge should get an advanced effect when we shake this
charge, if they
are advanced effects. What happens to it? Is it there? And if there’s
any paradox.” Well,
that was the beginning. After I did lots of work on this.
Weiner:
Do you know when that was? Can you date that?
71
Feynman:
Mm. Not exactly.
Weiner:
Was it in your first year at Princeton?
Feynman:
I think not. It was probably in the second year.
Weiner:
It had to be before February, 1941.
Feynman:
Yes, so it was probably in the fall of 1940, or a little earlier — yeah,
fall of 1940,
probably. I was sent home, so to speak, back to my room, to check these
various things,
to really make sure that we had done it right on the blackboard, to find
out what, to get
the numbers exactly right, to know exactly how much half advanced wave,
to find out
why there was only retarded waves going forward and pure advanced coming
back, to
check that a particle nearby would feel no advanced effect — which I did
differently, I
couldn’t do it in the arbitrary positions sphere, but only an
infinitesimal distance away.
And all this work was quite tedious and difficult, because the methods
were not good. As
I kept working on these things, with Wheeler’s suggestion of what to try
next and so on,
I got more and more power — understood the generality. We knew that the
answer
must be independent of the shape of the box, and we’d try to prove that.
You get more
and more powerful. You understand it better and better. We did many
examples of
understanding, of the way of refraction would have worked if the system
had advanced
waves. He made lots of suggestions of what to study, and I would go and
look at these
things. I’d take it back, and he would suggest that we ought to think
about how a
material would, index would work if it was generating advanced waves,
and so on,
gradually putting the pieces together and making sure we understood how
advanced and
retarded waves worked. And things about paradoxes, sort of — you know,
you get a clue
from the advanced wave that something is going to happen, and then you
don’t do it.
You know? I mean, if a particle has an advanced wave — take two charges
that interact.
You shake one down, the other should shake earlier, should have made an
effect on this
one earlier. So you sit there. You see, there’s no — there’s an effect
on this one earlier,
so you have — that comes from the other — that means you’re going to hit
it now? No,
you just don’t hit it. Well, then, what happened? Where would that
effect come from?
You see. Or you say, if there’s no effect there, then you say, OK, I’ll
hit it — then there
should have been an effect there. So there are evident paradoxes. Now,
in the closed
72
universe system, where everything was closed, there was absorber all
around, there were
no paradoxes. We eventually proved its equivalent to the retarded
theory. But we felt
that we can’t have a theory which would have been paradoxical in some
other
environment. We therefore had these paradoxes, which I studied and
argued, and would
make explanations of the paradox, how it straightened out. And then I
would challenge
my friends to try to explain them—my friends in the graduate school.
Many discussions.
Many arguments.
Weiner:
Did they follow you on this?
Feynman:
Oh yes. It’s a problem. You could explain the difficulties, and they
would challenge you.
I would say, “I think the difficulty is straightened out by supposing
that for every —
supposing that there’s no device which has a response, which is a
discontinuous function
of the stimulus, but only continuous functions, so there’s always a
solution in between,
when you get a kind of half bump ahead of time, and then you’re not sure
— is it there
or is it not there? — when the time comes to hit, you’re not exactly
sure to hit strong or
weak, and you kind of miss a little bit, and that is self-consistent.
It’s so weak you’re not
sure, you don’t know which way — so if it’s a continuous function —”
Then they would
argue, “Well, that’s not necessary, we could have mousetrap devices and
so on” — you
know. It was like the old days with Bohr. I felt like that. You see, we
knew the history of
science, and that guys like Bohr would argue with — the uncertainty
principle, or
Heisenberg — they would argue about what would happen, how you would
really not be
able to measure something, in spite of the fact that someone would think
you were,
because if you built the apparatus… We had the same kind of reasoning.
Then I’d
analyze what would happen with each of their devices which they would
use to break my
paradox. It was quite a pleasure. It was just like the old days. It
would hold me for two
days, to find out why I couldn’t — with this device that they had to
beat me, what was
the matter with it, you know. And so on.
Weiner:
Who were they?
Feynman:
The graduate school.
Weiner:
Can you remember the names of them?
73
Feynman:
The most I remember is Bill Woodward. We had many arguments about this
paradox
with Bill Woodward. John Tuckey in mathematics, I discussed a little
bit, not so much
the paradox but some theorems and some topology, which are fixed point
theory and so
on, which just meant that I had an intersection of two curves, and other
little things. We
talked with the graduate students. They discussed these ideas a lot. I
can’t remember all
of them. But I was also developing quite carefully the general theory of
this thing. An
ever more improved form. I don’t think I need to bother you with all the
forms. We
wrote the darned thing in 65 different ways. I mean, three or four
different ways, all
equivalent.
Weiner:
Over how long a period of time?
Feynman:
I can’t remember. Then there would be a question, “What about energy?”
See, we had a
principle of least action, finally. We represented along by least action
instead of
Maxwell’s equation, because in Maxwell’s equation you have one field,
and a one field
would have to act back on its own generator, which is action on itself.
But it was on
many fields, one for each particle, a thing which — Wheeler was very
close to the
literature. He knew that an idea like that had been suggested by
Frankel. He also found a
paper by Fokker, who had a least action principle, which he showed me a
very short
time, after, which had advanced waves. Fokker had noticed, if you try to
write interaction
with the least action, you got both advanced and retarded, and that’s
just what we got,
fifty-fifty, so therefore we could have a least action. I found a way to
write Fokker’s
rather complicated looking action very simply, using direct delta
functions and so on.
Gradually we got cleaner and cleaner, to understand this thing, in so
many ways — we
solved all kind of — we really studied it. We knew it inside out. He
knew how to tell me
what to do, so we studied every aspect. We knew what energy meant, what
happened to
the theorems of energy, what happened to everything, you know, what
happened to
paradox, the way it worked, how to prove it in the neatest possible way,
and so on. And
he told me to write it up, and that it shouldn’t be any more than 20
pages, a beautiful and
simple thing, or something like that. So I wrote it up, and it took me
29 pages. He didn’t
like the write-up of the thing. He didn’t like it. He said — by that
time he’d changed his
mind, this was such important and wonderful stuff that we ought to write
it as a sort of
grand thing, and so he started a grand program of five papers or
something, which I
didn’t really understand, and this was going to be part of it. In other
words, he started by
wanting a short paper; he ended by making a long paper. And my 27 page
thing — I
don’t know where it is, I have a copy of it —
74
Weiner:
— the draft manuscript, you mean?
Feynman:
Yes. Yeah. I also have much of the paper on which I did many of these
derivations, the
business about energy and things, somewhere. I have the manuscript, the
pieces and bits
and so on. I was using a certain kind of paper at the time that my
girlfriend had given
me, that her father had gotten from some defunct company, and so you can
tell what
was being done when by the character of the paper being used. I have
this stuff, which
I’ll try to find. Then, along with doing this, somewhere, we felt that
we really understood
it far enough that Wheeler suggested that I give the Research Conference
— you know
what that is? It was something like a seminar we had every week.
Weiner:
In the Physics Department?
Feynman:
In the Physics Department. You usually invite people from the outside,
to talk about
something.
Weiner:
A sort of colloquium?
Feynman:
Exactly, yes. We also started a Journal Club, but that was a small
thing. I attended that.
But there was the big weekly colloquium. So Wheeler decided we should
give this stuff at
the colloquium, it was worthwhile, and that I should do it, because it
was a good lesson
for me to learn how to talk, or something. I said, “Gee, you know, it
scares me.” He said,
“I promise to answer all the questions” — so that I wasn’t too
petrified. It was my first
experience at a real technical talk, see. Professor Wigner was in charge
of the colloquium,
so after I said I would do it, he told me that he had heard from Wheeler
about the work
and he knew something about it. I think we had discussed it a little bit
with him. And he
thought it was important enough that he had taken the liberty to invite
especially
Professor Henry Norris Russell from the astronomy department, the great
astronomer,
you know, John von Neumann from the mathematics department, the world’s
great
mathematician, and Professor Pauli, who was visiting from Zurich, would
be there. And
Professor Einstein had been especially invited — and although he never
comes to the
75
colloquia, he thinks he will come! So I went through fire on my first. I
must have turned
a yellowish-green or something, because I remember Professor Wigner
assuring me not
to worry, that they’re very nice men, that on Professor Russell he’d
just given me a hint
— if Professor Russell falls asleep during your lecture it doesn’t mean
it’s no good, it’s
just because Professor Russell always falls asleep, but he’s listening;
and that if Professor
Pauli is nodding “yes” during the entire lecture, don’t be too
impressed, because the man
has palsy and nods “yes” all the time. He was trying to make me feel
better, you see.
Then I came to the thing and gave the lecture. First of all, not having
too much
experience, I put equations all over the blackboard, all the equations
on the blackboard,
all over, filled. So I was busy for an hour and had a lecture filling
the blackboard, and
didn’t go to the tea previous to the lecture. Professor Einstein came by
while I was filling
the blackboard and said “hello” and asked me where the tea was, you see,
and he went
on to the tea — and I kept writing these equations.
Weiner:
Was this your first meeting with him?
Feynman:
That I now realize that it probably wasn’t. I’ll come back to that as
soon as I finish the
story. I met him another time either before or after — I’m pretty sure
before, now,
because he knew me; he shook hands and went upstairs to tea. Then,
everybody came in
and so on; I got up to give the lecture. I can still remember [looking]
in front of me to
see the envelope, and pulling out my notes, and the hand shaking — I can
see it, the
shaking hand because it was quite a thing. And I started to talk about
the subject. And
then a thing happened that has happened ever since, and is just great:
as soon as my
mind got on the physics and trying to explain it, and organize the
ideas, how to present
it, there was no more worrying about the audience, as personalities! It
was all in terms of
physics. I was calm, everything was good, I developed the ideas, I
explained everything
to the best of my ability. Not very good because I wasn’t used to giving
good lectures, or
giving lectures, or something, but at any rate there was no more
nervousness — until I
sat down, you know. Then came the questions.
Weiner:
How long did you talk, do you remember?
Feynman:
It must have been the standard time, more or less — an hour — maybe I
went over, I
don’t know. Anyway, Professor Pauli got up immediately after the
lecture. He was sitting
next to Einstein. And he says, “I do not think this theory can be right
because of this,
that and the other thing —” it’s too bad that I cannot remember what,
because the
76
theory is not right, and the gentleman may well have hit the nail on the
bazeeto, but I
don’t know, unfortunately, what he said. I guess I was too nervous to
listen, and didn’t
understand the objections. “Don’t you agree, Professor Einstein?” Pauli
said at the end
of his criticism. “I don’t believe this is right — don’t you agree,
Professor Einstein?”
Einstein said, “No,” in a soft German voice that sounded very pleasant
to me, and said
that he felt that the one idea, the one thing that seemed to him, was
that the principles of
action and distance which were involved here were inconsistent with the
field views, the
theory of gravitation, of general relativity. But after all general
relativity is not so well
established as electrodynamics, and with this prospect I would not use
that as an
argument against you, because maybe we can develop a different way of
doing
gravitational interaction too. Very nice. Very interesting. I remember
that. Then there
were other questions, and Wheeler answered Pauli’s objections and so on,
but it was so
like fireworks, I can’t remember now the objections or the answers. But
Wheeler did
answer, as he’d promised, everything. Oh, now comes another amusing
feature which I
should mention. While I was preparing all this, working out energies,
doing these things,
the obvious problem was to make the quantum theory of this. We had only
the classical
theory. The problem was to make quantum electrodynamics out of it, and
Wheeler
started to do that, and said he’d got it. I didn’t know how he has it,
and he wouldn’t tell
me how he did it, because I was supposed to prepare my lecture and do
this and that.
And he scheduled himself for the next week. I was scheduled to give the
classical theory
of action and distance or something like that, was my seminar subject —
so, the
quantum theory of action and distance was the next seminar. So Professor
Pauli said to
me, on the way up into the laboratory afterwards, “Tell me, what is
Professor Wheeler
going to say? How does it work, the quantum theory?” I said, “I don’t
know.” “Oh,” he
said, “the professor doesn’t tell his assistant how he has it worked
out? Maybe the
professor hasn’t got it worked out!” It turned out that Professor
Wheeler had been
overambitious and thought he had something when he didn’t — and he
canceled that
lecture. Professor Pauli was a very astute fellow.
Weiner:
Let me ask — this was based on the idea that if you can solve the
problem for the
classical case, that it’s a question of the next step to apply the
quantum theory?
Feynman:
Well, my feeling was, even from the very beginning, that the first thing
we had to solve,
before we solved the quantum work with electrodynamics, was to
straighten out the
difficulties with the classical electrodynamics.
Weiner:
Because intrinsically there were difficulties?
77
Feynman:
There were. And they were similar sounding. At least, the one about the
self-energy. It
wasn’t cured by quantum mechanics and the infinite self-energy of
classical physics. So I
figured, first we must cure the classical physics. That was my MIT idea.
Then we must
turn and see of those ideas would work in the quantum physics. And I
didn’t ever think
that it was going to be direct and easy to go from the classical to the
quantum, but that it
was necessary to go in this particular order, or at least it was a good
route. Whereas
Professor Wheeler felt at this stage somewhere that the transition to
the quantum
mechanics was very obvious, very simple — whereas I didn’t know how to
do it, and I
didn’t see; it seemed to me quite difficult to make the transition, and
I didn’t see what he
was going to do. He mentioned a few things to me which I didn’t
understand very well,
and it didn’t seem quite clear. But then he never talked, he didn’t say
anything else.
Apparently he had some idea which didn’t work. I never did know exactly
what it was.
Weiner:
Was that lecture of his presented at the colloquium?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
Canceled, it wasn’t postponed?
Feynman:
That’s right. In this matter there was also another thing. At the same
time, he had sent in
to the Physical Society that he was going to give a talk at the meeting
on the quantum
theory of action and distance, and he never told me what that was
either. I had to go to
the meeting. This was some months later, or something, because you see
you have to
send in ahead of time, so maybe a month and a half later, something like
the quantum
theory of action and distance. He went to give the paper and he still
didn’t tell me what it
was going to be. I had to go to listen.
Weiner:
Where was this?
Feynman:
78
Washington, possibly. I had to go to listen, because he didn’t tell me
what it was. Then
he gave a lecture in the beginning of which he talked about our little
ideas, about action
and distance and so on, classical theory and quantum theory and so on.
Then he changed
and said, “Relative to this problem,” and then started to describe
another thing, which is
the question of van der Waals’ forces between atoms when they’re so far
apart, further
apart than the wave length of the virtual interactions, the virtual
photons that go
between then; when they’re more than a wave length apart, where the wave
length has to
do with the natural frequencies of the atom. Then the van der Waals’
force law changes
from inverse R to the 6th to R to the 4th or something — something he
had worked
out, an interesting problem that he had worked out earlier that I knew
about. He had
talked to me about it before. But it was standard electrodynamics. It
had no relation at all
to these ideas. And he had dragged my name into the thing and not told
me what it was,
you see, and then began to describe these things that had nothing to do
with it. They
were perfectly legitimate things. But I was upset somewhat because he
had done this. He
had said it had something to do with the other theory, and it doesn’t.
So I got up in the
meeting — it wasn’t very nice of me, maybe, but this is what I felt like
doing, so I got up
in the meeting and said, “I criticize it on this basis.” I criticized
his talk on the basis that
his introduction had nothing to do with the second. I felt I must
protect myself from the
implication that the work we did continued into quantum theory had
something to do
with this. So, because my name was in it, I had to protect myself. I had
to explain that
what I did and so on, what we did together on this thing, I don’t
believe has anything to
do with that, and I don’t see the connection and so on. He admitted, no
connection.
Weiner:
On the spot?
Feynman:
On the spot — and on the way out, talking to me — we were good friends,
you see —
he said to me, “I shouldn’t have given the talk at all. You’re right. I
thought I had the
quantum theory, and I don’t, and I thought I could use the other thing
under that title.”
I said, “You could have, if you didn’t make out that it had something to
do with the
other theory.” You know, something like this. Anyhow, we were friends
about the thing
and everything. I think that the man had bad luck. He thought
incorrectly that he had a
solution. And you can imagine the importance of it and the excitement of
it would drive
him to do things a little unusual under the circumstances. I was a
little bit unhappy that
he couldn’t explain it, but I think the reason he didn’t explain it to
me was not that he
wouldn’t have if he’d had it. But he hadn’t quite got it at any point,
you see — and the
few little things, attempts that he had done to explain it to me, I’d
shot full of holes right
away, and saw the troubles. And so he didn’t — he never had it to tell
me, is really the
reason he didn’t tell me. I think that the poor man believed that it was
going to be easy,
to such a point that he would get it tomorrow morning. And so he never
told me what it
was because he didn’t have it yet, until the day of the talk, and then
he was stuck for
79
something. That’s what happened. So I never felt, you know, that he had
been trying to
do anything dirty to me, or anything like that. I just felt he
mistakenly believed the
answer was just around the corner.
Weiner:
Was the abstract of the talk published?
Feynman:
Yes, I think so.
Weiner:
But nothing else.
Feynman:
I believe the abstract is close to the subject that he talked about.
Weiner:
Yes — but no paper followed?
Feynman:
No. No. Then what happened is, he got engrossed in writing up our work,
in a grand
and wonderful fashion. He didn’t take my 27 page thing. Then he was
worried about
something, clearly — I was working on the quantum theory, I had nothing
to do — so
he kept giving me little problems, like testing the energy principle,
and this and that, this
and that, which apparently must have driven him mad because I kept
solving them so
fast. But I was starting to work on it. I did start to work on the
quantum theory of this
thing, because I had nothing else to do, while he was writing this grand
work. But the
quantum theory was not so easy to arrive at, and his worry about how
fast we would get
the answer was, unnecessary.
Weiner:
Let’s try to get some dates in here if we can.
Feynman:
Yes. I’ll just go back to one thing, about whether I met Einstein
before. Oh — dates on
80
these things? I can’t get you dates good on these things. I don’t know
when I gave the
talk.
Weiner:
Well, was it before that Cambridge meeting of 1941?
Feynman:
It was before, but not much before. It was not much before. It was
probably more or
less a similar time, because probably what happened was, to give the
talk at Princeton
and then we should have a paper at the meeting. So probably right after
I gave the talk at
Princeton, I suppose, was the talk in Cambridge.
Weiner:
When was his talk?
Feynman:
Afterwards, because the quantum theory came afterwards.
Weiner:
It could have been the spring meeting.
Feynman:
Probably. Probably. Yes, very likely.
Weiner:
So the February meeting in Cambridge and the spring meeting is in
Washington —
Feynman:
Probably. It’s a good supposition. You can check that. Now, I do
remember that
meeting in Cambridge, which I otherwise would have completely forgotten.
Weiner:
You started to tell me, excuse me, about having met Einstein before?
81
Feynman:
Well, I’ll finish, I’ll come to the Cambridge thing, because it’s a
small matter. It was just
the same thing — we should present this paper. I had no experience, and
meetings
scared me, and I worked the whole think out very carefully for the time,
and I practiced,
to do it in ten minutes, and all this other stuff. And I wrote the
entire speech out, and I
practiced it in my room with a friend to time me, and all this kind of
stuff. It took me
longer than ten minutes, and I heard the bell ring, and I got nervous —
and I read the
whole speech. So it was dull, impossible for people to understand, and
uninteresting.
There were some questions, two questions, I think, afterwards, which
weren’t very
sharply to the point. I felt a little bit disappointed that it wasn’t
apparently understood. It
must have sounded sort of crackpot, like guys were bored listening to
this guy read it,
and so on. I’ve since gotten much better at speaking, but that was very
different. That
was the way I gave the first one.
Weiner:
That was really your first public —
Feynman:
— first public thing, outside of Princeton, yes. But I really had been
driven through the
wringer on the Princeton colloquium, I think. So I don’t remember much
this
Cambridge thing. There wasn’t much to it. I gave the paper, there were
one or two
questions, I think Wheeler answered one of them, and that was all there
was to it, you
see.
Weiner:
When did Einstein tell you about how Tetrode had done some of this same
work in
Europe?
Feynman:
Tetrode and Einstein had had a discussion about something—I think a
paper that
Wheeler discovered.
Weiner:
In the paper in 1945, you referred to the Cambridge meeting of February,
1941, where
some of these ideas were presented. Then you said, “I don’t know whether
it was at this
meeting that Einstein mentioned this, or after the meeting.”
82
Feynman:
I didn’t say that. That paper of 1945 is really written by Wheeler.
What’s the name of the
author?
Weiner:
The 1945 paper is “Wheeler and Feynman.”
Feynman:
Ok, but it was mostly written by Wheeler, and references, things like
references, to
Tetrode and all this other stuff, that’s Wheeler. Wheeler liked
references. I didn’t like
references. So if he signs out that Tetrode in 1837 did something, 1897
did something,
that was Wheeler’s discovery I believe, although I’d be glad to look at
it more closely. Let
me tell you about the one other meeting with Einstein. Wheeler felt our
work was
interesting enough and important enough that we ought to discuss it with
Professor
Einstein, and so he made an appointment, and we went to Einstein’s
house. We were
introduced in his study, and we both sat at the desk — he was behind the
desk — He
wore this sweater, without a shirt under it, no socks — just like
everybody says — and
was such a soft, nice man in the discussions, at all points. He was such
an interesting
man to talk to. We explained the ideas, and he made some comments about
them, and
then later came to that lecture. Yeah. So I did meet him, and it was
quite a thing.
Wheeler thought the stuff that we did was very important, and I believe
he’s right;
although it never turned out to be useful, I think it was a very
interesting possibility. It
could have been right. I mean, you can’t tell ahead. And it was an
interesting new way of
looking at electrodynamics that was different from what had ever come
before, so it was
worthwhile. He was right that we should talk to Einstein and give these
colloquia,
because the potential possibility that this was a solution to quantum
electrodynamics was
— unless Pauli could see through it, but he didn’t make clear to me what
he saw, it
seemed to me and to lots of people that it was quite interesting. I wish
I could remember
what Pauli’s objections were. It would be most interesting to know how
deep he could
think at that time. I’m sorry. I have no way of recalling. Wheeler may
remember.
Weiner:
That might be the only way really to find out. Now, you mentioned he
wanted to do a
grand paper. He was doing that while you were working on some problems.
Feynman:
Yes, and making the quantum theory.
83
Weiner:
The culmination of this grand paper was what?
Feynman:
The culmination was, his grand paper has never come out. This grand
paper, as a matter
of fact, gradually grew until it was to be a series of five papers, of
which this thing is Part
4. Isn’t that so? Isn’t there a nutty footnote —?
Weiner:
Yes, here it is, right here.
Feynman:
Well, I was never with him on that. I could never understand.
Weiner:
This article, paper, written in 1945, presented in 1945, says that “This
has been in
preparation since before the war by the writer and his former student,
R. P. Feynman.”
Feynman:
Right.
Weiner:
“The accompanying joint article, representing the third part of the
survey, is the only
section now finished.”
Feynman:
Third part, all right.
Weiner:
“The war has postponed completion of the other parts.”
Feynman:
Right. Now, I was not involved in the other parts. See.
84
Weiner:
I see. Is this essentially the paper that you originally had prepared?
Feynman:
It’s modified, but the subject that I worked out with him, that we
worked out in 19__ —
before the war — in which he asked me to write the paper — I wrote this
thing up in 27
pages, which we could have sent in to a journal, but he began to think,
“No, it’s too great
a business, we’ll write it good.” And that of course made delays, and
got interrupted with
the war, and he got it so big that it was five parts — the whole
reorientation of physics
from a different point of view. I never went along with him on that. I
mean, you know,
with the idea that it’s so marvelous, it’s a reorientation of physics,
you have to write five
papers, and all of physics is turned upside down. But I felt that 27
pages were what it
deserved. This was written mostly by him. See, it was a rewrite of the
27 pages, so to
speak. I wouldn’t say a rewrite because he didn’t use the 27 pages as a
basis, but the same
ideas, are developed, which I tried to write much more briefly, and
which he tried to
write in an historical context, about the arguments of Tetrode and
Einstein — you see,
it’s a relatively long thing, and I didn’t really write it, you
understand. I worked with him.
But it was not in the spirit in which I thought it should be written.
Weiner:
Were you present when this was delivered?
Feynman:
Submitted. Instead of being submitted in its most simple way. Now, what
I had done to
simplify it — I didn’t like this, I felt this wasn’t a good way to
present it, it makes it too
complicated, there’s a more beautiful way. Then when I needed it later,
when I started to
talk about quantum theory and so on, I printed my own paper.
Weiner:
In 1948.
Feynman:
Yes, in which I reviewed this, so to speak. But really what I was trying
to do is write my
own paper, but I couldn’t say everything again, so I had some things I
had to curtail to
make it shorter. But in 1948 or something I wrote on the classical
theory of action at a
distance, or some such something. I can’t remember the name of it.
85
Weiner:
“A Relativistic Cut-off for Classical Electrodynamics?”
Feynman:
Yes, and in that paper in the beginning is an introduction to the ideas
that we had
worked out. Now, let’s see. Yeah. But it’s also modified a little bit.
Yes, you see the
mathematical formulation of action at a distance, and how it’s
equivalent to the standard
theory. I’ve only got one page to say everything, you know, because I
can’t — I never
was in a position to publish it the way I wanted to. I had to refer to
this thing. But I did
it the way I wanted to. I had to refer to this thing. But I did write
this presentation, so I
improved it, but it’s still very much too brief. It’s a little
unfortunate. It was published
rather briefly in connection with a modification of it, in this paper.
But I had to make an
excuse even to publish what Ii did. See, I said, “A brief summary of the
point of view is
given here,” and I referred to this paper of Wheeler’s.
Weiner:
In another paper in 1948, you refer back to the 1945 paper — you did
refer to it in your
paper on “Space-Time Approach to Non-Relativistic Quantum Mechanics,”
and in that
paper you said that the 1945 paper was an attempt “to quantize this
theory presented in
1945 led to the present paper” — that is, to the new paper on quantum
mechanics. Then
later —
Feynman:
Yes — well, that’s the quantum theory, but here in the classical theory
I refer to this
paper too.
Weiner:
Yes. But at one point, though, you did say, I don’t know the exact
paper, that this, the
idea presented in 1945 will not work in quantum mechanics.
Feynman:
That’s right. I don’t think so. Right.
Weiner:
When was it that you were convinced of this?
86
Feynman:
About that time.
Weiner:
About 1948, when you wrote this paper.
Feynman:
Yes, when I finally did do quantum electrodynamics.
Weiner:
I think before we plunge into that —
Feynman:
— I’m still not absolutely sure of that. But some of the ideas
certainly, almost certainly,
don’t work. I think the idea that an electron cannot act on itself is
probably false.
Because an electron and a positron are the same particle, reversed in
time, in some
situations, when the pair have been newly produced. Electron and
positron do interact
with each other. And my other view is that that’s the same particle,
backwards in time.
And so I don’t believe my own ideas. See?
Weiner:
I see. Before we plunge into this thing, which does represent really a
new departure, I’d
like to go back to some of the setting around Princeton in the forties.
Feynman:
Well, before we do that, I would like to instead tell some of the
subsidiary things that we
thought of, associated with this theory. There were so many side things.
One was to try
to represent gravity by a somewhat similar method. Another was a —
rather hard to
explain in a simple way. We tried, we began to thin that space — it was
interesting, space
is nothing but the result of experiences or interactions between
objects. So it’s not nice
that we write our theory in terms of coordinates and distances, because
after all it’s only
the interaction of the objects that counts. And so we tried to
re-express the
electrodynamics without saying anything about geometry or dimensions or
space, by
inventing an idea which is, if this particle can act on that particle —
you see, we would
order along a world line the moments by some parameter, the time, proper
time, but not
necessarily proper time. The scale is not defined. We don’t want any
lengths. But there’s
an order, by this variable. Now, there’s a connection between points on
two lines. That
87
is, this one can affect that one, the retarded connection, and there’s
another connection
from one value of the variable, the parameter, along one path, to two
values on another
path. That connection is really, if you had the geometry, that this time
on this path is on
a light cone from the two times on the other path. So therefore we had a
one to one
correspondence, rather than a two to one correspondence, of points on
one line to
points on another. And that’s all there is in nature. You can describe
all these things, and
the orders of them, you see, to send signals back and forth, back and
forth, and watch
the way these timings change. We would hope to describe all of the
electrodynamics
through just the ordering and the mapping of these lines, these points,
from one line to
another. We didn’t succeed in that. But just telling you some of the
things we worked on.
Weiner:
This is all at Princeton, though.
Feynman:
Oh, at Princeton, yeah. Some of the things we tried. We tried some
rather elegant things.
We also developed a number of modifications of electrodynamics which
were within the
range of experiment, which could be distinguished experimentally, but
which were
possible ones, in which the interaction was not exactly on a light cone
but slightly off.
Then, there was another thing — I don’t remember. We tried all these
different ideas.
We had this new expression of electrodynamics, and so we tried to drive
it as far as we
could in every direction that we could.
Weiner:
When did the idea of the thesis —
Feynman:
— oh yes, I remember the other idea.
Weiner:
Good. Whenever I try to lead you away —
Feynman:
— we got this space-time view, this view of action integrals and action
in distance, and
pads in space and time instead of fields, and so on, that we were
thinking about. Then
Wheeler called me up one day and he said — I answered the phone in my
dormitory –-
“Feynman, I know why all the electrons have the same charge and mass,
all different
88
electrons.” I said, “Why?” He said, “They’re all the same electron.” So
I asked him what
he meant by that brilliant idea. He said, “You know, we always make the
world lines go
one way, but suppose the world line of an electron is one enormous knot,
going back
and forth in space-time, just one line, going back and forth. Then when
we cut it in the
place of present time, we’d have a large number of intersections, which
would represent
electrons.” I said, “Oh. Yeah. Very nice.” He said, “It turns out that
the back section,
where it’s going the other way, the proper time’s running the wrong way,
corresponds to
a negative charge. You see why?” Then he explained why. I could see it
from our action
principle: you change the sign of BS and change the sign of the charge.
So that was — I
said, “Yeah, but where are all the positrons?” “Well, maybe they’re
hidden in the protons
somewhere or something, the back sections.” I said, “Ok. It’s a nice
idea.” But what I
liked about the idea was that the positrons were electrons going
backwards in time, and
that world lines could be inverted. This idea I kept in my mind,
although I didn’t go so
much for the fact that all electrons are the same electron. He always
liked to prove it to
the most dramatic point. I just took the backwards-moving electrons as
very likely
candidates for the positrons. Because here we had a theory that we could
represent both
electrons and positrons in classical physics in a very simple way, by
reversing, by letting
the world lines go backwards and forwards in time. So it was pretty
good. He had a lot
of good ideas, Wheeler.
Weiner:
Yeah. He seemed to be able to deal with the ones that you brought in
too.
Feynman:
Yes. Well, what he did, you see, things like — I’d like to remark that
the moment he
mentioned advanced waves — that is, against causality and all this other
stuff is against
cause, the causes would precede the effect — no, the causes would follow
the effects
instead of preceding them, and so on — I didn’t ever say, “But that’s
impossible!” or
anything like that. I was not ever upset by any of the obvious troubles,
as against some
principle of causality or something. This was from the training we had
in physics from
Einstein and Bohr and so on. See, the history of physics was that a
crazy idea like
relativity, which is so evidently nutty — like when one man thinks two
things are
simultaneous, some other guy riding by doesn’t say so — or, that you
can’t measure
simultaneously position and momentum, or something — It had been
discovering that
you must always think carefully about the real experimental situation
before you
cavalierly say such a thing is impossible, you don’t like it. So I never
objected to any of
these crazy ideas, on those grounds. I never said, for instance, “How
can it go
backwards? How would it know when it’s going to meet an electron?” I
knew that that
was something we would have to study — that that wasn’t obviously
cockeyed. The fact
that there were protons and not positrons were an obvious trouble, but I
let him get
away with it, so someday we’ll discover how the protons go, wind up in
this knot, too.
But never mind. His brilliance, the wildness of his ideas, apparently
impossible ideas, did
89
fall on fertile soil, because I never objected to what other people
would immediately
have objected to, you know. All the books would say we can’t use
advanced waves
because this would mean effects would precede causes. But things like
that never
bothered me. I don’t give a darn. I never thought in terms of cause and
effect
necessarily, anything.
Weiner:
Well, the whole concept of time involved here — just even thinking of
the philosophical
thing —
Feynman:
Those didn’t bother me, until we would sit down and analyze and find
out, this is
necessarily against experiment. That was clear, that we always had to do
that, because
you see, it would be too easy to object — it was a lesson that you can’t
object to
Einstein’s ideas on Page 1 in spite of the fact that they look like
they’re wrong. How can
something shrink when it moves? Sit down and analyze if it’s not
impossible. But it isn’t
impossible, see? That we had learned. I’m telling you this because it
shows something
about the history of physics, the connection — that the lessons from
these other men
were just precisely that. Don’t take it too quick that it’s obviously
wrong, just because it
says something nutty, because you have to first make sure that the
nuttiness is really
nutty. In other words, take a real experiment; think very carefully that
you will get an
advanced effect that is directly opposed to what actually happened. When
we tried to do
that we didn’t get anywhere, see? We didn’t find such a thing. We got
around all the
paradox. So everything’s OK. So I know. These things never bothered me.
And as soon
as I tell people these ideas, they often come to me with all this, “Wait
a minute, how’s it
going to —” But I never had that trouble, in the beginning. The history…
Weiner:
— was it a self-conscious reference to history, or an absorbed
tradition?
Feynman:
Probably an absorbed tradition. Just an absorbed tradition — that you
know that nature
can look very, very strange, in the fundamentals, and yet produce in the
end the natural
phenomena in a way, very different looking than you would think at
first. It’s all right.
You’ve got to think it out, you can’t just jump that it’s wrong.
Weiner:
Just to return — how did this relate to the choice of a thesis topic?
90
Feynman:
Well, I didn’t get the thesis yet. The next stage was to make the
quantum theory. Then I
started to work on that, very seriously, for my degree. The problem was
to make a
quantum theory of this classical theory. And the classical theory, in
the form I preferred
to express it, was the principle of least action, involving particles
only, no field, and in
which there were two times, different times — the interaction occurred
at two different
times. It wasn’t just velocities involved, but coordinates of different
times in the action
principle. The usual action principle, about coordinates at a certain
time and velocity —
but these would involve, interactions were instantaneous, anything
interacting was at the
same coil at the same time. This involved delay, and it meant that there
was no
Hamiltonian for the system, and none of the standard things that you
have to have to
convert by the standard method to quantum mechanics — find the
Hamiltonian, find
the momentum operators, and so on. There was no momentum operator,
because the
action was of a new form. So the problem was to find a quantum theory of
this thing. It
was not so easy. And I started to work on that for my degree.
Weiner:
When did you start on that?
Feynman:
Well, presumably about the time when Mr. Wheeler started to write this
paper, which
must have been in 1941-42. 1941 or 1942.
Weiner:
1941 — you got the degree in 1942, so —
Feynman:
It was probably not long after I had given the paper in the meeting in
Cambridge and so
on, because I probably wrote the thing up about that time, between that
and the spring
meeting. We’re guessing it was the spring meeting. Yes, probably it was
written up by me
about that time, and then Wheeler said, no, he’s going to write it, and
I said, all right you
write it — and then I went and worked on this other problem. I can tell
you about that
problem, but that’s another story. Which way do you want to turn now?
Weiner:
Well, I want to get all these events in this 1941 and 1942 period. The
reason I kept
mentioning the thesis is that I have probably assumed that the other
things were directly
91
tied in.
Feynman:
They are. It’s a direct attempt to get the quantum electrodynamics. And
now I’m stuck
with the problem, as I saw it: I have a classical theory with an action,
but not with the
Hamiltonian, and how do I go from the classical theory to a reasonable
quantum
analogue? The standard method of going to quantum mechanics from
classical
mechanics assumed there was a Hamiltonian. Well, there wasn’t — in this
form. If I
expressed it in the terms of fields or something, there might have been.
I was very
reluctant to do that, maybe incorrectly. There probably was another way
around. But I
insisted always to represent only the particles. In fact, it was because
my idea was to get
rid of the degrees of freedom in the field, and so I always [crosstalk]…
— the field back
again, sure. And I loved it. I had a minimum principle of action which
involved only the
particles, with delayed interaction, just like I wanted — the program of
MIT was
completely satisfying, to make a classical theory with direct action and
distance, with
delays as well as advanced. Only the coordinates of the particles were
mentioned in the
fundamental law, which was the principle of least action, and everything
was satisfactory.
MIT, first step, to fix the classical physics, was done. And OK — on to
the quantum
theory. Well, that — I’ll tell you what happened there, OK? I started
then to work on the
quantum theory of this thing more or less freely, while Wheeler was
fiddling around
trying to write the paper, once in a while being asked by Wheeler to
check some energy
thing or something, but it wasn’t very often. He told me at some stage,
“Don’t bother to
work on it, I’ve already solved it, the quantum thing” — but this was
all through this
year when he was having trouble. But I worked on it anyway. “You’ve
solved it? But you
didn’t tell me, I’ve still got to find out,” and so — The first thing I
tried — I tried a
number of ways. What I tried to do was find the quantum theory in a more
general
situation, any kind of action, not necessarily this particular action,
by making simple
models of actions which had the same consequence, such as a harmonic
oscillator
interacting with another harmonic oscillator, with a delay. Put the
essential in but keep
everything else simple. I solved that problem, the quantum theory of
that, by figuring out
what the oscillators would do in their interaction, and it turned out
that’s two new
modes, the usual way; even if there’s a delay you find two new
combinations, each of
which oscillates like a simple oscillator. I quantized those, and I was
trying to get back to
the original coordinate somehow. Although I could do the harmonic
oscillator case, it
was too simple and didn’t give me a clue as to the general theory. I was
struggling with
this problem, when I went, for relaxation, to the Nassau Tavern, to a
beer party. That’s
at Princeton. And there was there a new fellow who had come from Europe,
whose
name was Herbert Jehle and he came and sat next to me and said, “What
are you
doing?” You know? And I told him what I’m trying to do, the quantum
mechanics. I
said, “Listen, do you know any way to go from action principle to
quantum mechanics,
from classical action to quantum mechanics?” He said, “No, but Dirac has
a way, has
said something about going from Lagrange to quantum mechanics.” Well,
that was
closer — the action is the integral of Lagrangian. It’s a little closer
to the Hamiltonian.
92
So I was quite interested to see that, and he said he would show that to
me the next day.
The next day we went to the Princeton library and he got this paper by
Dirac, from the
shelf, and we went into a little room there. They have little rooms
there for discussions,
with blackboards, and we looked at the paper. And Mr. Dirac said — it’s
a little technical
now, but — there’s a kernel, a function, that takes you from the wave
function at one
time to the wave function infinitesimal time, epsilon, later. I could
write an equation, but
—
Weiner:
— can’t now —
Feynman:
No. And he, Dirac, said that this kernel was analogous — Well, to make a
technical word
that somebody else did — the transformation operates between X and X
prime, when X
is the coordinate of time T, and X prime is the coordinate of time T
plus epsilon.
Weiner:
Resuming the discussion now, we are going to review the discussion that
was previously
garbled on the tape (section just preceding, not transcribed) At the end
of the last reel,
we described the situation with Jehle and the Dirac paper, and you were
about to
describe what Dirac said and what you did with it.
Feynman:
Yes. Will you please check what’s going on with that tape, that
everything’s going onto
that tape correctly, please.
Weiner:
All right.
Feynman:
To explain what was in the paper, I want to refer to some equations. I
had them written
in space-time approach to non-relativistic quantum mechanics, written in
April, 1948, for
the REVIEW OF MODERN PHYSICS. There was a quality in quantum mechanics,
defined by Dirac, which was an integral kernel to carry the wave
function from one time
to the next instant of time. It’s defined in the equation just after
equation 33, the
function of X prime. And Dirac pointed out that this function in quantum
mechanics
was analogous to the exponential of i times epsilon times the
Lagrangian, where the
93
velocity for the Lagrangian you put X minus X prime over epsilon, and
for the position
just X. It said in the paper that the two things were analogous. Jehle
showed me this and
I read it and I said, “What does it mean that it’s analogous? What is
the significance of
saying that something is analogous to something else? “It just means
that it’s similar, it’s
analogous in some way.” I said, “I don’t know. What’s the use of that?
It can’t mean
anything, it has no use.” Jehle said, “You Americans, always looking for
a use for a
thing!” So I said, “Well, Dirac must mean that they’re equal. It doesn’t
mean anything
otherwise.” He said, “No, Dirac doesn’t mean they’re equal.” I said,
“Well, let’s try and
see if they could be equal,” so I substituted one expression for the
other, and calculated
what the wave function would be at the next instant, and found that if I
didn’t make
them equal but rather proportional, by multiplying by a constant, that
as a matter of fact
it was equivalent to a statement of the Schrodinger equations. So I
worked out the
Schrodinger equation from that right on the blackboard, and turned
around to Jehle and
said, “See, Dirac meant they were proportional.” But Professor Jehle
said, “No, no,
Dirac didn’t know that, you have just made an important discovery,” and
he was very
excited and copied everything into his notebook. I didn’t realize — I
was only trying to
interpret Dirac — but he realized that I had discovered something that
wasn’t known.
He said, “You Americans, always trying to find a use something! That is
a way to
discover new things.” He was quite convinced of it after that. I never
was sure, really
sure, that Dirac didn’t think they were proportional until way later, in
1947, when I saw
Dirac at Princeton. He was lying on the grass, and I said to him, “By
the way, Professor,
you know that paper in which you say those quantities are analogous,”
and so on. He
said, “Yeah.” I said, “Did you know they’re proportional?” He said, “Are
they?” I said,
“Yes.” “Oh. That’s interesting.” That’s all. He didn’t seem to be very
impressed or
anything. Anyway, apparently Jehle was right; he didn’t know that they
were
proportional. At any rate, then I had connection between the quantum
mechanics and
the Lagrangian. I could explain the Schrodinger equation direction in
terms of the
Lagrangian, and gave the wave function at one time in terms of the wave
function an
instant later. It must have been a day or two afterwards, I was lying in
bed thinking about
this thing, and thought, “What would happen if I wanted to get the wave
function, and
at finite interval later suppose that the interval was divided into a
large number of small
steps? That to carry the wave function one step I’d have to multiply by
either the i
epsilon times the Lagrangian and integrate, and then to go to the next
step I’d have to
multiply that by the i epsilon again and integrate again and so on, for
the end steps.” And
so I saw this multiple integral, this end fold integral standing there,
with all the variables,
and the product of all these exponentials of i epsilon times the
Lagrangian. But the
product of exponentials is the exponential of a sum, so that it was
clear that it was the
exponential of the sum of epsilon times the Lagrangian for each
successive position, so
to speak, on a path. I could represent the coordinates that I was
integrating over as a
succession of positions through which the particle was supposed to go,
and then this
quantity, this sum, would be like an integral, the integral of L, which
is in fact the action.
So I suddenly realized that to get the wave function at one time and the
wave function at
earlier time, I had to multiply by E to the i times the action for a
path running from the
original position to the final position, and sum it over all possible
coordinates of the
94
path. I say it more clearly now, probably, than I visualized it in terms
of paths and so on.
I probably had it more or less in terms of coordinates, instead of
thinking of paths, but I
had the idea. I saw the action expression.
Weiner:
You were thinking of this at the time.
Feynman:
Yes, I saw the action expression, suddenly, so to speak.
Weiner:
Did you see mathematical symbols?
Feynman:
In the air, in the head. Yeah. You see the action coming on. And I said,
“My God, that’s
the action! Wow!” I was very excited. So I had filed a new formulation
of quantum
mechanics in terms of action, directly. I got up and wrote everything
out, and checked
back and forth, and made sure it was all right, and so on. My aim was
immediately to try
to substitute the other action, the action with the delay in it, for the
more simple cases
that I had done before. There were two problems that developed. The
first was that the
action I’d had for electrodynamics involved only, either that there were
no interactions,
was relativistic, involved particles according to relativity, and I
couldn’t see how to do
the relativistic case by this path integral way. It didn’t work. There
were certain square
roots in the formula for the action, and when you integrate over the
paths the square
roots became imaginary and there were all kinds of trouble. On and off
ever since I have
tried and tried to extract the Dirac equation from this kind of wave,
without putting in
special operator or other mathematically different things, and I’ve
never succeeded in
getting a satisfactory way of doing it. There are several ways but I
didn’t like them.
Weiner:
Has anyone else made an attempt to do that?
Feynman:
People have, yeah. I’ve seen them do the same thing I was trying,
getting about the same,
usually less, and being more or less satisfied. But it’s no good. No,
you can’t do it —
only by putting operators in it, different algebra in and so on. I was
trying to understand
the different algebra and the Dirac equation by some more simple view.
At any rate I
95
still, however, had the possibility of describing the interaction of
non-relativistically
moving electrons, like interaction through light. That is, I’d take the
light correctly with
all its delay, but the matter would be described by a non-relativistic
approximation, and
for that I did know what the action was, and that was perfectly clear,
what I ought to
substitute in the action to make the quantum mechanics. There was one
difference. My
action would have, in its interaction, a delay. See, let’s say there are
two particles
interacting. Then the coordinates that have to be described — two
coordinates, say X
and Y for the particles, one X, the other Y — and the paths over which
I’ve integrated
give Xs and Ys at different times, all different times. It was easy in
my form to represent
an interaction — this is between X and Y — is instantaneous; the coulomb
interaction is
instantaneous. Then I would have to take the X and Y and the same time.
But it was
very easy in the action form to simply suppose that the interaction was
not at the same
time, but the time would differ by the distance over C — that is, there
would be a delay
or advanced effect. So it was just as easy to write instantaneous
interaction as it was to
write delayed interaction. Then I realized that I had a representation
of quantum
mechanics which was in fact quite powerful. I would like to interrupt to
say, I had to
develop some views and ideas about the viewpoint and the conventional
viewpoint of
physics at that time. All of the quantum mechanics had been previously
represented, as
well as ordinary mechanics, by differential equations, and the equation
of Schrödinger,
d(psi)d(t) = H(psi) had with it the philosophy that we know all the
conditions at a certain
time, and the equations tell us how to find the conditions at the next
instant of time. So
we need to know enough — the present, in other words, determines the
next instant.
Well, if we had a direct interaction from one particle to another, not
from fields but a
direct interaction, then what’s going to happen during the next instant
does not depend
on where the other particle was. So if the action is instantaneous, it’s
easy to write a
differential equation because in knowing only where the particles are
now, at X and Y,
we can find out what they’re going to do next. But if there’s a delayed
interaction, to
know where the particles are now is not sufficient. You have to have
known where it
was. And in fact, the field variables, from this point of view, were
merely some way of
keeping track of what the particle had done in the past, so you could
predict the future.
So you had to have an infinitely large number of new variables, to keep
track of what’s
going to happen to particle X because Y had been moving in such and such
a way in the
park. Because all you have is the present position of Y. You see, the
difference between
instantaneous interaction and delayed interaction, which is physically
not great, was
mathematically infinitely great, because there was a complete change in
the formulation.
You have to have an infinite number of field variables, where you could
have an
instantaneous action before. For example, the coulomb interaction was
represented in an
ordinary Schrodinger equation, but if you wanted represent a delay in
that interaction,
you had to invent a whole new system of electrodynamic field. But with
regard to this
action method of describing things, in which you had the particles out
in space and time,
an instantaneous interaction and a delayed interaction appeared to be
equally
representable. One was just that the two times were equal; the other was
that the two
times were different. So I realized or thought that I had an inside
track on these
otherwise complicated situations. I could represent complicated
interactions, what used
96
to be complicated, due to electromagnetic field, oscillators and
everything else, by as easy
a way of representation as an instantaneous interaction. There was no
real difference in
it. Also, as soon as the interaction was delayed, the concept of wave
function then had to
disappear. I didn’t believe any more in wave function, because the wave
function gives
the amplitude, to find the particles in various places all at a given
time. And I was going
to get the same thing later. But if there’s an interaction with a delay,
that’s not a
convenient way of expressing things, because to know the amplitude, to
find the two
particles at the same time, is too special a thing. And it’s not enough
to know what
happens next. But in the action form, in this E to the I S business,
with the delay, I still
could analyze things, by a more complicated idea, a different idea.
Which is — it’s a little
hard to express — but the idea of the wave function just would
disappear. I wouldn’t
have the wave function, but I would have an amplitude that objects would
get from one
condition to another. But the condition couldn’t be so precisely
specified if they’re still
interacting. For example, if they came from far apart it was easy. If
they came from far
apart, the interaction could be neglected, and then as they come
together, the E to the IS
with all its delays starts operating, then they go far apart again and
the interaction’s no
longer important, and I can get the amplitude for that. But I don’t have
any wave
function in the intermediate region or even precisely at the beginning
and end. So I had
to develop some different physical ideas. Many of these are discussed in
my thesis, on
how the physics should look from an action point of view when there are
delays — later
on, the thesis that I wrote on this subject later.
Weiner:
Why don’t you talk a little bit about the things that were in your
thesis? This is the logical
point to approach it.
Feynman:
Well, it isn’t, but all right. Let me –- no —. Then when I put that
action is, I thought I
had the right electrodynamics, and having been trained by Wheeler to
check everything
— you know, what happened to the energy theorems, what happens — while
I’m
fooling around — I got into slight difficulties, and got kind of jammed
up here and
there. I can’t remember exactly how. And stopped. I felt I couldn’t get
it. Incidentally, at
that time I got involved with some war work, which I’ll describe how
later, and decided
to put the thing away, that I couldn’t do it. Professor Wheeler said to
me, though, that I
ought to just take the E to the IS part, for the ordinary quantum
mechanics, that that’s
enough of a thesis — I think, as a matter of fact, that he probably felt
that the work I did
on the classical theory was really enough for a thesis, but he had
always tried to get more
out of me. Anyway, the E to the IS stuff would be enough or ordinary
action would be
enough for a thesis, I didn’t have to do the electrodynamics too. But it
was funny, I was
a strange fellow, because I thought, “No, that’s not important at all,
because that’s
exactly equivalent to the regular representation — it’s equivalent — so
it’s just another
way to write it, it doesn’t add anything. What I really have to get is
some contribution,
97
make something different, which is this electrodynamics.” So I wasn’t
satisfied to do
that. So I stopped working on it, and worked on the war work for a while
and then
realized that I had a problem, since I had simply put it in the drawer
at the time when I
started the war work at Princeton. I realized, already I had enough
experience with
research to know that you can’t read your own papers later unless you
really write down
something, for a fool, what it is you’re really doing, you see — what
everybody is — not
just at the equations. So I realized that I’d better write this down or
I would forget so
much, I wouldn’t make head or tail of the partly analyzed research. So I
asked for leave
from the war work — I don’t know, a month, three week, six weeks or
something —
and it was granted. So I went back to do it and it was psychologically —
and it was
guarded. And I felt very guilty because the first day I just relaxed. I
lay out on the grass
and looked up at the sky all day and I felt kind of guilty about it. I
did this for two, three
days, but then my mind started to think. I was supposed to be writing it
up, but instead I
was sort of thinking about it. Then I got ideas which straightened it
out, or at least I
thought they straightened it out. I finally thought I had everything
straightened out on
this retarded interaction theory and all. Instead of just writing it up
so I could understand
it later, I wrote it up as a thesis and handed it in, showed it to
Wheeler and Wigner,
during all this time, of course, and got my degree successfully at that
time. I didn’t finish
the thesis. It turned out later, as I found out later, there were still
difficulties, and the
thing was not satisfactory, but I didn’t realize it at the time, in my
excitement. I thought I
had solved what difficulties I had previously seen. But it was only a
temporary error, by
which I thought everything was all right, and published the thesis. The
parts of course
that are all right are still a representation of quantum mechanics
without a delay a delay
and so on. But the generalizations that are contained in the thesis are
probably
erroneous, as written.
Weiner:
But you subsequently referred to it — or did you ever make reference to
it in your
published works? Or did you just absorb it?
Feynman:
I mostly absorbed it, but there were things in the thesis which I didn’t
published in other
work. Apparently, you see, since I worked independently, there were a
lot of things that I
would notice that were noticed by people before, often written up
satisfactorily but very
elaborately, perhaps, or not very clearly, whereas I saw it very clearly
and had it nice and
neat. But there’s no use publishing something like that. As a matter of
fact, there’s too
much of that kind of publication — the same thing somebody else does,
you do it better
— a little better, not violently better, so that it means anything. Then
you republish and
republish. There are things that students may have difficulty — It’s
interesting; I just get
off on a tangent here. There may be some idea that’s difficult to
understand the first time
you study it. For example, Einstein’s theory or something like this. And
a man trying to
learn it can’t understand it. Later he finally understands it — say,
when he goes to teach
98
it, he finally understands it. He thinks that his particular way of
understanding it is a very
much clearer than the way it was presented to him before. Therefore, big
deal, he puts
out a paper — new way of looking at it! Actually, it’s not a new way. I
mean, maybe it is
a little bit new, but it’s very personal, and it’s not sufficiently
different. It’s not really that
much clearer than the other way of doing it. It just happens that that’s
the way he
happened to come finally through the wicket, so to speak, you know, in
that direction.
And there’s an awful lot of that kind of papers, in which somebody
supposedly
understands somebody else, and is going to improve on the demonstration
of it. But it
doesn’t really improve. It’s just a different demonstration. So, there
was much in my
thesis which was of this kind, things that other people had done, and I
never even
checked the references, but presumably other people had done. But there
was a
discussion of principles of least action in classical mechanics, and the
problem of the
definition of energy and momentum under these circumstances. They were
defined in a
general way. I think that this is quite early for this definition, but I
don’t know if it wasn’t
published earlier — certainly it’s been published since. There were a
number of analyses
of ideas, of the difference between action principles and the ordinary
differential
equation things, when there is delay in the action. There was one
problem of interest
which I’ve never solved, which I tried to solve a little bit after the
thesis. I might as well
mention it. I wanted all the consequences of classical mechanics for
which you needed
Hamiltonian’s, Lagrangian’s ordinarily, to be generalizable to the case
where the actions
had delays. I had here a method of doing quantum mechanics which at
least I thought
was satisfactory. Its ordinary mechanics is easy enough. You take the
variation and get it.
But there’s one branch of mechanics which still came from Hamiltonian’s
and the
classical world, and that was statistical mechanics, in which you could
demonstrate that
the probability of different states was E to the minus the Hamiltonian
over KT, and so
on. Question: if you had a mechanical system working on principle of
least action, in
which there were delays, not solely the simple action, you’re given the
action function
but there are delays and so on, what is the statistical mechanics
corresponding to it? I
believe that a system with delayed interactions of this kind can get
into equilibrium at
some temperature, and therefore that certain motions have certain
probabilities. But to
find a general description of what is the probability of a given motion
at a finite
temperature, directly in terms of the action of the mechanical system,
when that action is
not simple, it’s just a function of X, I’ve never quite worked out. It
was always
something I wanted to do. That one I didn’t work out. But I did do many
other things,
asking many questions about how the ideas were to change, of ordinary
mechanics, when
instead of having the action be a function of velocity and position, it
would be functions
more complicated, involving at different times and so on. A sort of
generalization of
most of the things in mechanics, with the exception of statistical
mechanics. And some
of those things are discussed in that thesis.
Weiner:
How many pages did it run?
99
Feynman:
Not very long, I don’t think. You can find out.
Weiner:
Yes, I’ve got a copy on order.
Feynman:
Forty, I guess.
Weiner:
Then this was published by Princeton?
Feynman:
Well, I didn’t know whether it was published or not. They took fifty
bucks from me and
I went —
Weiner:
— well, it was made available, I think, on University Microfilms; some
were then
published in DISSERTATION ABSTRACTS, and someone can call for it if they
want.
Feynman:
Well, I didn’t see it for years and years, and I kept asking Princeton
for a copy and I
couldn’t get one. Only about two years ago, a year or two ago, that I
finally got to look at
it. I have a copy in my desk, at last. I seem to have lost all the
copies and not had any.
Weiner:
It would be interesting if we could find out from University Microfilms,
(that’s how a
person would order) how many requests they’ve had over the years, to see
whether
anyone reads these things or not.
Feynman:
I don’t think these are a good source — really.
Weiner:
100
People don’t go to them?
Feynman:
Today people don’t go to theses. Things that are any good in theses I
believe should be,
and are, always published more widely in a regular journal. It was only
because of the
war, as a matter of fact, that this was not more widely published. It
was because it was
interrupted the work. Ultimately, after the war, I began to publish bits
of it, in this article
on “Space-Time Approach to Non-Relativistic Quantum Mechanics,” and so
on, but it’s
not organized the same way as the original thesis. It’s a little
different. But it’s the same
subject.
Weiner:
Just going back to the oral exams that you had to take as qualifiers, I
guess you’d call it
—
Feynman:
— yes, I forgot to talk about that. That is earlier, of course.
Weiner:
Yes, this would probably be some time in 1941.
Feynman:
And Princeton, as far as I can remember, had no restrictions on the
courses. On the
opposite hand, they had a qualifying exam, and a very stiff examination,
where I think
you had to do the written exam for either a whole day or two days, and
an oral exam
where you had to go from one group to another. There were at least three
groups of
professors to get examined by. And so it was quite difficult, and there
was a lot of
atmosphere, graduate students always worrying about it, and various
graduate students
having flunked it once or possibly even twice. You only get three times.
Worrying about
it and studying again for it and so on — it was quite a thing. To study
for it, I went to
MIT, where nobody knew me anymore, it would be quiet, and worked in the
library,
stayed in a room that the fraternity fellows gave me, and studied there,
without
interruption. The way I did it was I just simply reorganized all my
knowledge of physics.
I wrote a book, I mean a notebook, which is called “Things I Don’t Know
About.” And
I summarized all the subjects as best I could. Actually I was kind of
proud of that
notebook. You see, I brought each subject down to some kind of kernel,
like statistical
mechanics, that the only thing, I realized by working back and forth,
that the central item
was the probability of occupation of a level is E to the minus energy
over KT, and that
101
all the various other forms and so on come from this in various ways,
and I indicate
how. So I organized every subject in physics so that I knew where the
essential was, and
what the derivative was. There was a way of putting it together so that
the subject was no
longer so complicated to me. When you learn something, there’s so many
parts and
pieces, it looks complicated, and it’s hard to see the pattern or order
of it sometimes.
And when I went through all these subjects, I tried to grind it to a
minimum memory
proposition, you see. And that meant a logical understanding of the
interrelations, and I
worked quite hard on developing this thing. I worked on it with a sort
of consistency —
instead of only on the subjects I thought they would ask, I did all the
rest of the physics
that I knew exists, such as quantum electrodynamics, quantum relativity,
and other
things are in there too. They were all in that notebook. I knew that
they wouldn’t bother
me with that, but I wanted to kind of finish my summary of physics. And
I used that
summary from time to time when preparing a course in some branch. But
nowadays, I
know. I mean, I’ve got the views in my head so well that I don’t even —
I don’t know
where the book is, I’ll try to find it. That’s the way I studied. I
don’t know how long,
maybe a month, two months, something like that. Two months, probably.
Then I went
back to Princeton and took the examination, wrote things and went
through the thing,
passed it all right.
Weiner:
How about some of the questions on the exam that you remember? The oral,
I guess.
Feynman:
Well, there was something that I had trouble with about a rainbow, about
which color
was at the top of a rainbow. You know, students are more afraid of the
examinations,
and they think they fool the professor, (I’ll give you an example) but
they don’t. They
asked me which color was on top of a rainbow. I said I didn’t know, but
I could figure it
out. They said, all right, figure it out, and I drew a drop of water and
said, let’s see, now,
the red rays are bent more than the blue — And the professor said,
“Would you draw a
curve of index refraction against wavelength?” And I thought: aha, I got
it wrong. So
when I drew the index versus wavelength I turned it around so that the
index was higher
for the blue end than for the red end — the opposite of what I just
said. When I looked
at my curve I just drew, I said, “Oh yes, excuse me, it’s the other way
around.” But I
drew the curve because I knew from the question it was backward, and I
thought, I’m
fooling him. Of course, he’d just given me a hint that I was wrong on
the other. It was
just a game. Robertson had asked me a very interesting question about
relativity and
aberration, which I answered incorrectly. When you look through a
telescope at a star,
because of aberration the star looks like it goes in a little circle.
And how would it look
the other way? So I argued it was all right, the earth looked like it
goes in a little circle
too, from the star. We had quite a tussle there, and I talked him into
thinking everything
was all right. As a matter of fact, that’s quite wrong. The circles are
different size and
they’re not related. The relativity fails because we’re talking about an
accelerating system.
102
You go in a circle and it changes velocity. But anyway I convinced him
that I had
answered it correctly, when I had not. Then there was one good question
I remember,
because it was rather fun. Wheeler asked me, “Here, I’m reading from a
textbook on
optics by Jacobs and Why,” which was a very good standard work on
optics, and there it
said, he deduced, that a hundred atoms would have fifty times the
intensity of light if
they were randomly phased as one atom. I said, “Oh, that can’t be, it
must be a hundred
times as much intensity.” Then we looked, what’s wrong with the
derivation? And it was
some subtle error in logic. But it’s easy to make subtle errors in
logic. I was rather
shocked, though, to discover that these men could — first, that it was
in a text; second,
not the error was so — anybody can make a mistake like that — but that
you don’t think
about the consequences of the result and realize that it’s absurd.
Because the same logic
on two atoms, precisely the same — it didn’t make any difference how
many — would
say that two atoms would be just as intense as one. And that’s a little
fishy, and they
should have worried about it a little bit. Anyway, that struck me, to
find such a gross
error in a book.
Weiner:
He proposed that as a question.
Feynman:
Yes, to find out, he asked me what did I think and how would I criticize
it, yes. Actually
I think he put it in the form, “Would you deduce that result, please?
How did they
deduce that result?” And I must have said, “I don’t know how they
deduced that result
because I think it should be a hundred.” A kind of trick —
Weiner:
Without indicating that the result was wrong —
Feynman:
— I believe so, yes, without intimating that it’s cockeyed, yes.
Weiner:
He quoted it as if it was official.
Feynman:
Right out of the book, and asked me for the derivation of that result. I
didn’t fall for that
one. It was a pretty good exam, altogether.
103
Weiner:
After the exam, as you indicated, you got involved in some war work.
Feynman:
I remember a friend of mine, Fox, said to me, right after the exam,
asked me what kind
of questions and I said, “The one I had the worst trouble with and got
wrong, came
close to getting wrong, was which color is at the top of the rainbow?”
So this guy Fox
says to me, a graduate student, “Oh, that’s easy, I’ll tell you how to
do that. You know,
there are two bows, when the sun is good there are two bows. Right? You
know that?” I
said, “Yeah.” He said, “Well, just remember — reds repel — but that’s
wrong.” So I’ll
never forget. The reds are next to each other. So he told me to
remember, “Reds repel,
but that’s wrong.” It’s so silly that you can’t forget it after that.
Weiner:
Then you were involved, as we discussed, in some war work, which we’ll
get to. Then
you did the thesis. Let’s get the next steps here. The commencement took
place in June,
1942?
Feynman:
Yeah. Yeah. My parents came. It was a regular commencement, with
academic gowns
and so on.
Weiner:
Anything special?
Feynman:
No. My parents were proud and all this.
Part III: The War Years
Weiner:
Then you mentioned about the war work that you got involved in at
Princeton.
Feynman:
How’d I get involved with the war? What relation was there with the war?
Well, first, I
104
had sort of patriotic feelings, you know, because during that time, in
1941, even before
the war began, there was lots of pro — helping the country business, you
know patriotic
feelings. There was a lot of talk, a lot of businessmen going someplace,
Plattsburg, in
upstate New York, and making their contribution, and all this kind of
stuff. So I thought
I’d better. I mean, my ability to do physics and so on might be of some
use in the war. I
tried to find a place where this technical ability was useful, rather
than just — I mean, I
didn’t want to — I didn’t think it was wise just to go in the usual way.
I wanted to make
some use out of what I could do. So I had a friend, previous fraternity
brother, who’d
been in the Signal Corps, the ROTC connected with the Signal Corps, so
he referred me
to some important character in the Signal Corps, a major or a colonel or
somebody, in
New York. I went to his office and talked to him, and told him I was
technically able,
and the Signal Corps could use such technical things and so on. He told
me I should join
in the regular way and maybe go to Plattsburg, I think it was, or
somewhere, and go
through the regular basic training and become a second lieutenant, and
then they could
use me, technically. I said, “I don’t think that’s a good scheme. I
mean, there must be a
more direct way of doing it.” He said, “Well, that’s the way it’s
organized. That’s the way
the Army works. If you want to make a contribution, that’s the way you
have to do it.”
So I went outside in the park and thought about it. I wanted to make a
contribution, and
I realized how dumb was the organizational scheme, but after all that’s
the way it was,
and if you’re going to do something you’ve got to do it with the way the
world is, and so
on. I mean, I didn’t know any other way. However, I thought it was
possible that there
may be, and I’d better not take the first thing I think of. There may be
a way to go more
directly. I’ll keep it in mind. Fortunately I decided not to go and
become a second
lieutenant. However, I want to explain — you see the level of the strong
feeling of
wanting to make a contribution. When I at last had gotten a job at the
Bell Telephone
Company for the summer of 1941 — I’d been applying for summer work for
three years
or so every year — when I at last got the job I wanted so much, because
I liked Bell,
then a man come down from the Frankfort Arsenal. Big deal — they need
physicists.
Physicists are needed! The need six physicists, he was interviewing men
— and so on.
It’s the same feeling of patriotic stuff, so I figured, OK, here’s my
opportunity. So I
talked to him, and he offered me a job, and I wrote to Bell Labs and
told them I had this
chance to do some war work and I felt that was more important under the
circumstances
and so on, and they excused me from my arrangement. They said that they
did have
some war work if I wanted. I was quite foolish. I would have been better
off in the Bell
Labs, for my own sake, and possibly even made a bigger contribution. But
anyway that’s
what happened. So I went and I worked at the Frankfort Arsenal, there,
as a sort of an
engineer — I checked gears, partly — part of the time they used me to
check drawings
of non-circular gears and complicated things. You had to check
everything, and it wasn’t
easy for anybody to do, but anyway it was a kind of waste of things. It
was only after
several — near the end of the summer — that the boss realized more than
I was useful
and I was getting practically to the point where he would call me aside,
when nobody
else was in the office, because he didn’t want the other engineers of
the same rank to get
worried, and we’d talk about quite serious questions. The whole plan of
the director.
They were building a director, mechanical director, for shooting down
things, and certain
105
general problems, instead of just the little things. Then, when the end
of the summer
came and I wanted to go back to Princeton, they made me all kinds of
promises. I would
be able to design my own director, and go down and get the information
from so and so,
and such and such and so on, and they showed me a sample of the data —
and the shells
wouldn’t even go off for the director I was supposed to do, because they
were fuses that
were powered — the fuse would be timed by air burning some powder, and
they were
supposed to fire at high altitude out of airplanes, and there wasn’t
enough air to burn the
powder, so the data stopped. And it was this kind of insanity — Anyway,
they promised
me a lot. It would be the whole job. I could tell them what data I
needed. I’d be a big
shot. But they’d given me the same stuff at the beginning, when I went
to join the place,
about what I’d be able to be doing there, and it wasn’t what I was
doing. And I’d learned
quickly about this that it’s easy to promise but they won’t do what they
say. I don’t mean
just one place. I find that the lures that are put out in industry often
exceed the reality.
The reason is that when they get a good man in an industrial position,
they promise him
something — like, to leave him alone, he can do whatever he wants. And
they have
somebody there, and to have suddenly a serious commercial or military
problem of the
company — they know this guy can help them, and there’s the guy, he’s
hired, and the
guy himself, in spite of all the promises, feels a responsibility toward
the company, and
he destroys himself. He can’t help it. And this is very common. Anyway,
I learned the
lesson, a little bit, anyhow. It was a hot summer, and it was a lot of
work, but I kind of
enjoyed it anyway. I liked their engineering too. It wasn’t so bad. But
I wouldn’t stay
there.
Weiner:
This was in the summer of 1941, I gather.
Feynman:
That’s right. I couldn’t stay there, with that thesis I was working on.
So I went back to
Princeton, to work on some more on the thesis, and while I was working
on it, one day,
in the morning, Bob Wilson — I don’t know how many months after this
was—came
into my office.
Weiner:
Was he on the faculty of Princeton at the time?
Feynman:
Yes. Yes. A very young member of the faculty. And he said, “I have
something to tell
you. I’m not supposed to tell you because it’s an absolute secret. But
since after I tell
you, you’ll work on the project anyway, there’s nothing to worry about.”
So he told me
that they were going to try to develop the atomic bomb in the country,
and that they
106
needed a way to separate uranium from the two isotopes, and he had
invented a scheme,
a buncher scheme. He explained to me how it worked, to separate the
isotopes. There
were a lot of technical, mathematical, theoretical problems associated
with it, space
charge limitations, how current should carry a beam, and other devices,
and they were
going to try to develop this thing, and he wanted me to do the
theoretical work to help
them along. I told him he’d made a mistake, I’m working on this problem
here and I’m
going to finish it, and I’m not going to do that. I guess my patriotism
had disintegrated
or something. I said that he’d made a mistake to tell me, but that’s all
right because I’m
not going to say anything to anybody. “All right,” he said, “we’re
having a meeting at 3
o’clock and everybody who’s going to work on it’ll be there, see you at
the meeting.” So
he went out. He’s a great fellow. Anyway, I went to sit back at my desk
again, but I
couldn’t work. I began to think about this, you know, and the importance
of it, the great
seriousness, and so on, and what would happen if Hitler got the device
before we did,
and went through these things. People said, “Don’t you feel guilty?”
afterwards. No,
because at that moment is when I did my thinking of the seriousness of
the situation in
the world, of the possibilities of making a bomb, of the dangers that
would result if the
other side were to have done it if we didn’t, and it seemed to me
absolutely clear that we
must really make an effort to “save the world” from the other
possibility. It’s true, it
turned out later that they weren’t doing very well, but there was no way
at the time to
know, because it was possible. We showed it was possible. It was not
impossible,
therefore, that they would do it, and if they did, that would be
terrible. So, anyhow, I
went through all that thinking, and decided indeed I would come to the
meeting at 3
o’clock. So I took my thesis and put it the drawer. That’s what I
referred to later or
earlier — that I had to write it down later. I put it in the drawer and
that afternoon at 3
o’clock I was in the meeting. The meeting didn’t last more than 30, 40
minutes. Various
guys said, “We’re going to do this and that,” what they could do. Then
they picked out a
room, and they gave me a roll top desk and lots of paper and I started
to figure that
afternoon, right after the meeting, what the limitations of current
would be. It turned out
that the current limitations were very severe and we couldn’t see any
way around it, and
there wouldn’t be enough uranium separated to make it worthwhile, you
see. So it was an
important thing to decide as quickly as possible. But, not to waste time
and wait for this
guy to figure it out, they started to build apparatus to make
experiments, to build arcs
and so on, and it was for me — the first day was like those cartoon
movies. There was
some apparatus in the room, and every time I would look up it was
bigger, and bigger. It
was being put together like in those cartoons, you know. Fellows running
in and out,
putting together the parts. What they were doing was, they were raiding
their own
equipment. They had all decided to stop their research and to work on
this problem, and
they were just taking apart their vacuum systems and pumps and putting
it together in a
new way. That’s why they could do it so fast. And I was calculating as
fast as I could.
Finally I figured that there was a limitation, yes, but it was at a high
enough current that
it was probably feasible. It was feasible to make this thing work in
reasonable way. So I
said, “Ok, it’ll work.” I was very impressed by the experiments, how
they were putting
this stuff together. I was at party some time, much after the war, at
which the guy was
describing how it looked to him at Princeton. He was one of the
experimenters. He said
107
they’d got this plan, they were going to do it, they started to build
the apparatus, slowly
putting things together, getting ready to make measurements — and all
the time, on the
question of what charge, there was this guy Feynman sitting behind his
desk, “And each
time we’d come in to do something, there’s pieces of paper flying in all
directions, and
finally climbing out of the paper, with all the paper falling on all
sides of him he says,
‘It’ll work! It’ll work!’” So anyhow, that’s the way it looked from
different sides. So I got
involved in that project at that point. I can describe the details of
that project and the
rest, of finally going to Los Alamos and so on, and at Los Alamos, at
some other time;
there’s a good chunk of material. It’s sort of isolated. The two works
are completely
different, you see. There’s also the personal life at that period. So,
which do you want?
Weiner:
Let’s take the personal life now, and then we’ll use the other as a
continuity into the later
period.
Feynman:
Ok. During this Princeton period I got married, and I would like to tell
about the
problems that were going on, associated with that. I had met this girl,
Arlene, when I was
13 or 14, and we grew up together, so to speak. There was a considerable
exchange of
ideas. It is, I think, of some interest. This probably happens to
everybody, but anyway to
me it seemed like independent and personal, that her feminine softness
and different
view of the world — and she was an artist, too — of what was valuable,
what was
beautiful, and so on, were things that I didn’t ordinarily have direct
interest in — like the
lack of interest in humanities, in a way. But because of her interest in
these things and
the love that was developing between us, I paid a lot of attention to
these matters, and
softened up. I became a better guy as a result of the relationship and
of listening to her
ideas. I think also, vice versa. She was an ordinary girl, as far as her
views about what she
should do or say is concerned. I felt that honest, straightforwardness —
that one
shouldn’t worry about what people think. As a matter of fact, they’re
not really thinking,
they’re just giving some dumb opinion, and what you should think out is,
are you hurting
anybody or are you not hurting anybody? And you decide whether you do it
or you don’t
do it on that basis. And if you’re hurting them because they’re foolish
in thinking
something, then you judge whether you want to pay attention to their
silliness or not.
You understand what it is that’s happening, and don’t act by some rules
always, but think
about. Not by some rules. And so on. We developed our views of looking
at the world
together that way, and I was considerably modified, but also she was
modified by this
kind of scientific character that she was associated with. There has
been much talk about
the way scientists look at love and so on, and I think it isn’t really
quite right, that science
is not a dull, hard, cold business, but as a matter of fact I believed
then, and I still
believe, that if used right it gives you a way of looking at the world
and at the meaning of
things that are happening to you that gives you some control and
calmness in otherwise
difficult situations, and so on. We tried to develop this way. So that’s
why I mention
108
these matters. It’s interesting in some respects. Anyway, our
relationship grew, and we
loved each other, and we got engaged somewhere along the line. Also, to
show you the
absurdities of the scientific mind, however — sometime after the
engagement — I felt I
was engaged, I’d asked her to marry me and she’d said “Yes” — and
sometime after, I
was saying to her, “How did you feel when I asked you to marry me?” Dumb
questions!
She said, “Which time, the first or the second?” And I didn’t know that
there were two
times. I only remembered one. Then she said to me, “No,” and she told me
about the
two times. It turns out, the first time, I had said to her, “I would
like you to be my wife,”
and what I meant was, “It would be a pleasant idea.” The second one was
a proposal,
which she considered the second time I asked her — it was, “Will you be
my wife?” —
which is quite different to the scientific mind! But I can hardly blame
her, now that I’ve
kind of grown up a bit, with the first error. I thought at the time,
“But that’s not what I
said, I didn’t ask you, I was just dreaming about how nice it would be,
it would be nice
—” Well, anyhow, that’s the kind of trouble that we had, some kind of
silly trouble. At
any rate —
Weiner:
Did you become engaged at 19, I think you said?
Feynman:
I believed I got engaged — 7 years — 20, when I was 20 years old,
roughly, and I don’t
know when that is. We were engaged for six to seven years without
getting married. She
had visited sometimes at Princeton, stayed at Wheeler’s house. Wheeler
was very kind
and so on. These things went on a long time. The question is why we were
taking so
darned long. Because today fellows marry easily, relatively easily, and
don’t worry about
interference with their life and so on. However, at that time the view
was very different
in the world, and especially in my father’s mind, and then also with the
authorities of the
schools and so on, that marriage would only interfere with the career. I
don’t believe
now that that was correct, but I did at the time, and so we waited a
long time, till
everything was straightened out. During this time she got some kind of
illness. She got
some bump on the side of her neck and so on, and she got ill, and the
doctor said it was
typhoid fever. So she was in the hospital and we wore all these gowns
and so on. What I
would do was go to the medical library at Princeton, get a book, a big
book out, that tells
all about typhoid fever, all the details, how you make tests for it and
everything else. I
learned about it. When I went to the doctor then, I asked him, did he
make a Whitehall
test, or whatever it was. He said, “Yes, but it was negative.” I said,
“Then it’s not typhoid
fever, is it?” So he complained to the parents. I said, “Why are we
wearing all these
gowns? To protect us from the bacteria that you can’t even find when you
make a test
from some intimate material. What’s going on?” Also there were very
strange symptoms
that she noticed, that had nothing to do with typhoid fever — a swelling
of the glands,
bumps in the neck here, and swellings somewhere else, this would change
and get on the
other side. It was all crazy. It had nothing to do with the disease. So
I asked the doctor if
109
he — you know — knew what he was doing, so to speak. I just said, “How
could it be
typhoid?” The response I got was that the parents, who otherwise liked
me very much,
her parents, who were in charge — because I was not married to her, I
was only her
fiancé — got very angry with me, and said not to interfere with the
doctor and not to say
anything to him or bother him in any way, and it was none of my
business, and so on.
This was a difficult position for me.
Weiner:
She was in a New York hospital?
Feynman:
Which hospital was it? In Far Rockaway. The doctor was an incompetent,
but the
parents had confidence in him. But I knew he was just an absolute
incompetent. At any
rate, she got better, temporarily, from the so-called typhoid fever, and
then got ill again.
This time she went to another doctor, who at least had the sense — he
felt around under
the armpits and this other place and found other swellings besides the
one on the neck,
and said it was swellings in the lymphatic system, and he doesn’t know
what it is, very
hard to figure out. It’s the lymphatic glands that are doing these
things, because he found
them in different places. At least, that — the next step of brilliance
is to find out. I went
to the library again this time. This doctor was trying to help her. She
wasn’t in bed now,
she was walking around, but she felt uncomfortable from time to time and
had these
swellings. So I read about lymphatics — these symptoms — you look up,
“effects of the
lymphatic system, swelling of the glands.” So it listed the causes of
this, and the first one
listed was “local infections, like a bad tooth or some other such
thing.” But this was
obviously not local, because it was running all over the place. The
second was
“tuberculosis of the lymphatic glands,” and I looked that up. It said
immediately that this
is easy to diagnose, it’s just like ordinary tuberculosis, and this and
that. I knew the
doctors were having so much trouble. In fact, excuse me, by this time it
was more
complicated. That’s why I knew the doctors were having a lot of trouble.
This doctor
sent her to the state hospital, and there they had trouble diagnosing
it. In fact, they
brought her into a room with 30 doctors, a big thing, to try and figure
it out. Nobody
could figure it out. But under the lymphatic system things it said,
“Tuberculosis, easy to
diagnose.” Then I read the other ones –- “lymphodynema, lymph adenoma,”
all kinds of
stuff — and every single one of them was a fatal disease. Hodgkin’s’
disease and so on.
So I deduced that she had a fatal disease and wouldn’t last very long. I
remember reading
this, and then going to have tea at the Fine hall Library, and thinking,
while everybody’s
milling around, “It’s rather interesting what’s going on in one mind,
while the others
don’t know.” It’s an interesting problem. Anyway, I wasn’t sure, but it
was very, very
likely. So then I went and I discussed it with her. I didn’t have any
doubt that I should
tell her what I’d found out. You see, this is funny, because we’d come
to it, from lots of
experience, that we should tell each other everything, absolutely, and
that we could face
any reality. The thing you can’t face is not knowing what somebody’s
cooking up. That’s
110
hard, not knowing. But any real thing, you just sit there, take it for
reality, and see what
you do under the circumstances. So she was this way; in spite of
everything that people
said, we started to figure it out. So she suggested to one of the
doctors, “Could it be
Hodgkin’s’ disease?” and he wrote that down, “Hodgkin’s’ disease?” with
a question
mark. After that, it got to be Hodgkin’s disease, if you know what I
mean. Everybody
looked at it, they agreed. So that disease had — until they finally
decided — now, how
did it work? Oh, when they finally decided it was (that’s right) the
doctor of the hospital
came to me and said, “Listen; now we know what it is. It’s Hodgkin’s’
disease, and it’s a
fatal disease. There are remissions for a while. You can live outside
the hospital for a
while, then you have to go to the hospital for a while, then you go away
again, and so on.
Ultimately it’s fatal.” “Now,” he said, “I don’t want you to tell her
this. We are going to
tell her that she has glandular fever.” I said, “No, I’m not going to
tell her that she has
glandular fever, I’m going to tell her what she has” — you know, so we
could solve the
problem of how to live. They say: “No.” The parents were against me
again — they
think I’m crazy and so on. The doctor says, “I know everything that
happens to people,
you don’t know what happens to people like this!” I said, “I know that
girl. We’ve talked
about” — because we’d already talked about the possibility, when we
weren’t sure, you
see, and we knew what we were doing. Finally they said… You know, I
began to think
about it. I went home. My parents talked to me. They said, “We’re older,
we know —
you’re just young, wild, you don’t understand. You can’t tell her a
thing like that.” My
family doctor, whom I liked very much, my own, came over, a special
trip, worked on
me, and so on. Everybody worked on me. When a lot of people work on you,
you know,
you could think, “Maybe I’m wrong.” So I thought, “Maybe I’m wrong.” So
I said,
“Ok,” finally. And there was really quite a difficult experience,
because I went to the
hospital — she’s still there in the hospital, and there’s people
standing around there, and
I come in, and she turns to me — nothing could have been built worse,
you know —
she turns to me and says, “Ah! They’re all telling me I’m all right,
I’ve got glandular
fever. I’m glad you came, because I know from you we’ll find out what
the real situation
is!” Ah! But I had decided not to tell her. I said, “Yes, it’s glandular
fever.” She was
immediately and completely relieved. There was not a bit of doubt in her
mind. But I
thought, if she ever discovered that I had done this to her, we were
finished. That’s what
I thought, because I had done such a — we had built this up for so many
years, and it
was my idea to be honest and straight-forward, and that that was the
true value and so
on, and that it was really important, so you had someplace to hold onto
— and I went
against it, under all this pressure. So I wrote a letter explaining what
had happened, how
I did it, excusing myself, and saying good-bye, so to speak — I had to
write something
— which I kept in my pocket, against the day she ever discovered. Then I
would give it
to her and go away. One day she called me up on the phone. She had
gotten home now.
She was home for a while. She called me up: “Come over, I want to talk
to you.” So I
came over, letter in pocket, as usual, and she said, “What — sit down on
the end of the
bed — now, tell me: what disease do I have?” So I said, “You’ve got
Hodgkin’s disease
and it’s a fatal disease.” I knew she had found out somehow, see. She
said to me, “All
right then, don’t worry. I know that you must have been under terrible
pressure, for you
to lie like that, but just never do it again.” The first thing that was
in her mind was the
111
trouble been through, see — not that she was in difficulties. This was
the kind of person.
She was a great woman, you know. Really great. She had found out. She
had lived in this
house with her parents, who had all this lying, trickery game, you see,
which I had
trained her against. So she knew how to do it. She crawled down the
steps one night,
when she heard her mother crying to the neighbor, weeping, talking about
it, you know,
downstairs, very low voices, little sobs. She figured, “This thing can’t
be so simple.” She
went down and listened in a little bit. Then she realized that I had
done her in, so to
speak, but that I must have done it under great pressure. I showed her
the letter, but she
said, “It’s all right. Just never do it again. You were right, and you
must stick to it,” you
see. So anyway, when we knew what it was, we decided we must make plans.
Instead of
going to the Telephone Lab, where I had this job set up, instead of
continuing in my
work — because it was only going to last a few more years — I would stop
working, we
would get an apartment together, when she was well we would be as happy
as we could
be. Then she would go to the hospital, and so on, until the end, and I
would temporarily
interrupt my career for this purpose.
Weiner:
You’d sort of take a leave from Princeton?
Feynman:
Yeah, in some way, you see. That was the idea that I got. I tried not to
take a leave from
Princeton. I wanted to stay at Princeton. I went to the authorities, to
the dean; I told him
the situation, that my wife — that my girl — has an incurable disease,
and will last only
so many years, two years at most or three or something, and that I
wanted to marry her;
could I be married to her and stay in the university? “No.” I couldn’t
keep my
scholarship or whatever it was, and be married to the girl. It was very
severe. So there
was no way to continue at the place with the scholarship. I have a
financial problem, see,
that I had. And be married to the girl. It was quite serious. I was
surprised at that cold
answer. So we cooked up a different scheme, that we’d live in Long
Island, I’d work at
some — I think the Telephone Company, the lab, somewhere — I can’t
remember the
details, but anyhow, I had it all figured out. Well, in the hospital
they took a sample from
one of the glands, in an operation, biopsy, and they hadn’t got a return
on it. So a few
days after this, when we got everything figured out — or maybe it was a
week or two —
I got a call from her, and she said, “I have some news from the
hospital. I want to talk to
you.” I said, “Is it good or bad?” She said, “I don’t know.” So I went
over and talked to
her. She said, “It turns out, they’ve found tuberculosis in the glands,
and it’s not
Hodgkin’s disease. I have tuberculosis, and I’ll last at least five to
seven years and maybe
in fact get better.” So I said, “What do you mean, you don’t know if
it’s good news or
bad news?” She said, “Well, we had it figured out so good, that we were
going to get
married and all, and now we won’t for a while.” So it shows you, you
see, that even
under the worst circumstances, you can solve a problem to the point
where — I had to
convince her, it was good news. Anyhow, she stayed in the state
hospital, and I visited
112
her, about once every two weeks or once a week, something like that, on
weekends,
going all the way from Princeton to Long Island, also from Philadelphia
to Long Island.
She got gradually more ill. Then the war began, in December, and I got
this war project
business, and I wasn’t working anymore on my degree. I’d got it and
there wasn’t any
reason now not to get married. I was getting money from the war work. So
we got
married. I borrowed Bill Woodward’s station wagon, and we put mattresses
in it. I had
found a hospital in New Jersey which was closer to Princeton that she
could stay at. We
transferred her from her house all the way to New Jersey. While she was
sick we got
married, in Staten Island. We crossed on the ferry: that was our
honeymoon ship. And
we got married, and I took her to the other hospital.
Weiner:
When was this?
Feynman:
We were married in June, 1942.
Weiner:
After commencement?
Feynman:
Yes, that’s right. She ended up in a hospital called Deborah Hospital,
which is a very
good one. It was by the Garment Workers or something — the money
supporting it —
and I made contributions to it. But the man who ran it, the doctor — he
liked me. He
didn’t want me to make the contributions, but I did. I didn’t have much
money, but I
saved what I could, and I felt they were doing a good thing. So she
stayed there all
during the time when I was at Princeton. I’d visit her every weekend.
That was the way it
was. We wrote letters all the time.
Weiner:
Was she in the hospital, then, from the start of your marriage?
Feynman:
Yes. It was rather sad, in a way. She tried very hard to get better and
did everything they
told her, all kinds of things, like having some kind of a weight, a sack
of lead shot on her
shoulder or something, lie still, all day long. It was quite a thing.
She worked hard to get
better. It didn’t work. To finish the story — maybe I should just keep
on telling it? When
113
we ultimately went to Los Alamos, I had to take her to Los Alamos, and
they had a little
problem of finding a hospital there. Oppenheimer helped, and we got a
hospital. When
they went to hire me, I told him my problem, and he found something. So
everything
was set to move out to Los Alamos, and we packed all her stuff in boxes
and so on and
everything, and put her on a train. I went with her. We got a nice suite
on the train, and
we went all the way across the country — it was a nice ride — got her
out to Los
Alamos. And then she was in a hospital there. We’d moved to different
hospitals a time
or two — it doesn’t make any difference. Every weekend I would visit her
down there.
She was in a pretty good state there. That was a happier time. It was
less severe, the
hospital rules, and life was more pleasant. She had many things in her
hospital room,
books to read, a record player, and all kinds of stuff. When I would
visit her — we’d
write letters, and have all kinds of games that we would invent, to
play, and she was very
ingenious in cooking things up. Then she got interested in studying
things like Chinese
calligraphy, which she would do with brushes, and so on, so she had
quite an interesting
time. It wasn’t so bad there. I would come down on weekends and cook
steak on the
hospital lawn, on a grill, and so on, and we’d have the steak to eat.
And it was kind of
fun, it was Ok; we had a pretty good time — under the circumstances.
Well, she
gradually got more ill, and finally died, just before we made the test
at Alamogordo. She
never did know exactly what I was doing. But she didn’t desire to know,
I don’t think. I
mean, she knew it was secret stuff. The situation at the time of her
death, and what
happened to me on account of it, is interesting, but it’s connected to
work at Los
Alamos. I knew she was getting sicker. So I knew that sooner or later I
would have to go
down there. She was in Albuquerque, which was 100 miles from Los Alamos,
and I used
to hitchhike and use various ways of getting down there. But I figured,
in the emergency
I’d have to get down there somehow. So I had some friends who had
automobiles. One
of them was Klaus Fuchs, another was Paul Olum. I had ahead of time
arranged with
them, could they lend me their cars under the emergency situation? When
finally I got a
telephone call from the hospital, I should come down there; her father
was visiting at the
time because he had heard of this trouble. I borrowed Fuch’s car, and I
drove down. It
was a little old rattletrap thing, and the darned thing got a flat on
the way to Santa Fe. I
had picked up some soldiers to hitchhike. First they fixed the flat on
the road. Then we
went a little further and we got another flat. We went into a station to
get it fixed,
because we didn’t want to get another flat, and we had no spare. There
was somebody
else getting a tire fixed. The guy was going pretty slow and one of the
men who was
hitch-hiking with me went up to the guy and said, “This fellow’s going
down, his wife is
ill in a hospital and is dying, see.” I didn’t even think to do that. It
was a special situation.
Well, the guy immediately stopped on the other car, explained, and fixed
ours right away.
I’d never thought to ask him. Anyway, on the way down to Albuquerque, we
got two
more flats in succession, running out of the spare, not being able to
continue. And I left
the car about 20 or 30 miles from Albuquerque and myself hitch-hiked.
Somebody
picked me up, and I got into Albuquerque, and then went to see my wife.
Up to this
time, she had to take oxygen through the nose, and she was very still,
and her eyes would
follow — so she knew it was near the end. Anyhow, I got some company to
take care of
the car, put new tires on it, get the car and so on. Finally — well,
there was a little period.
114
I had a little time, some time to walk around and think about it. I knew
what was
happening. But because it happened slowly, I was completely adjusted to
it. I knew it was
going to happen, and it happened. It was very realistic. No trouble. It
was to me, in fact,
almost — this is terrible to say, but if it had to happen anyway, it was
interesting to
watch the, phenomenon, which I had never seen before, in this
particular. Anyhow,
finally she died. I was in her room there, and she died. They left me
alone for a few
minutes. I went over to kind of kiss her, like, you know — and I got the
shock that most
people get under those circumstances. It smells exactly the same as if
it’s alive. You’d
think more would happen — you know? And it’s the same. It’s just crazy.
Also, a rather
curious thing I noticed — I had given her a clock, when she just got
sick, the first time,
and a clock with numbers that turned this way. The numbers would change.
You could
read it quickly, not like a regular face. The clock was with her all
this time. It was getting
old. I had to repair it sometimes, and fix it up. It was a little
wobbly, but it was Ok.
When she died, and the nurses wrote on the paper the hour of death,
9:22, I noticed the
clock — it was 9:22 — afterwards, stopped. The clock stopped at 9:22. I
recount this
only for the record. There are so many phenomena of this kind recorded
that are
mysterious, but at this particular time, I was wise enough to have
remembered and
noticed something. The nurse picked up the clock to see what time it
was, because the
light was dim in the room, and this clock was wobbly, you see — I had
repaired it a
couple of times — so that stopped the thing. And it was easy to explain.
I say this
because you always hear these doggoned stories, because there’s always
somebody who
doesn’t notice something. You say, my God, what a thing! — you know —
it’s
documented! Well, this is absolutely true, but it’s explainable. Anyway,
I went back to
Los Alamos. It turned out that during this period we were doing an
extremely
complicated calculation, a very big moment, trying to calculate what
would happen —
big deal — and I was in charge of this group that was making the
calculation. When I
came back, I started to walk into the room where they were calculating,
and they said,
“Get out. It’s too complicated.” I mean, they had a lot of things. They
didn’t want me to
ask them any questions, they were nearly confused, they were doing
something quite
wonderful and complicated; they wanted to keep going and they didn’t
want to get
confused so they kicked me out till they could straighten it out. But
the thing that
bothered me, more personally, when I came back, was what people would
say. I didn’t
know how to face people. They’d say, “Oh, I’m so sorry to hear that!”
Well, I was sorry
to hear it too, but I knew it was coming and everything and I just
wanted to keep on
going. Well, as soon as I got back, I gave Fuchs back his car and told
him. He saw right
away how I felt. Anyway, I ran into some friends of mine, very good
friends, that were
working in the computing group — they’re still very good friends,
Metropolis and
Ashkin — and they said, “What happened?” I said. And they made a long
face, and I
tried to make some joke about how many tire flats I had, and they saw
immediately, they
understood me immediately, and they just kept close to me. And it turned
out that
somehow or other, through the whole place at Los Alamos, everybody knew
how I felt.
Nobody made a long face. Everything was all right. It wasn’t as I’d
thought. There was
only one guy, who was away, and came back, and he gave me the usual, “Oh
so terribly
sorry” and so on. But only one guy. So that was quite interesting.
Another thing that
115
struck me as very interesting was, Fuchs knew what I wanted, so he tried
to keep
something going, so when I came back he said, “Let’s visit Peierls, he’s
sick in bed,” so
we went over to see Peierls and said, “Hello, you ought to get better,”
and so on. Then
we went to visit some people called the Deutsches, and they were very
interested in
psychology and psychoanalysis and all this stuff, and she was sort of a
psychologist at
this place and so on. I was sitting there thinking to myself — no, I was
sitting there
eating grapes, talking. Fuchs brought me over there. We just talked
about this and that,
different things. All the time inside it’s going, “My wife just died,
the one I love so
much,” and so on. But I wondered, you know, if I can act calm enough so
they don’t
even notice anything’s the matter — these great psychologists that
observe all this stuff
— So I’m thinking, how it’s possible to have a mind which is so
completely involved in
some other thing, such deep experience, and yet, nobody can know what’s
going on.
And they didn’t know what was going on. But you can imagine my interest
in the fact,
when I later discovered that in that same room there was my friend,
Klaus Fuchs, sitting
there, within his mind the same thing going on. I mean, not the same
situation, but the
same idea. That he’s leading a natural life —
Weiner:
— a double life —
Feynman:
— a double life, and I was, for a short time, leading a very double
life. I remember
definitely thinking to myself; is it impossible to really know, even by
an astute person,
like these people were, what somebody is feeling, if he doesn’t want you
to know? And
at the same time when I’m thinking that, the de Maupassant twist of the
thing, you see,
was the delight later to discover that, while I’m thinking proudly how
they don’t know
what I’m thinking — Fuchs was thinking — God knows what they were
thinking.
Anyhow, that’s true, the story of that. I don’t know how relevant that
is, but you can
figure it out.
Weiner:
Oh, I think it’s part of the whole thing.
Feynman:
But it’s an important thing on the personality of the character. I had a
great faith in that
way of looking at the world –- scientific — make sure what the reality
is, don’t get mixed
up. I mean, everybody cries because somebody dies. There’s no reason to
cry. Why
should you cry? I cried anyway, maybe a month or two later. But it’s not
— it doesn’t
make any — you can do it if you want, in other words. You don’t have to
make a rule,
because other people expect it. That’s what worried me — they’d expect
me to have a
116
long face, I don’t want to have a long face. Actually, my friends were
excellent friends,
and they all understood me.
Weiner:
Do you think it was a part of this special situation of being there
anyway that made them
more sensitive?
Feynman:
Well, we were there a long time together. We were very good friends.
People were
friends of each other. Everybody knew the love I had for my wife, and
that she was ill,
and that she might die. Everybody knew the situation. And they knew —
they liked her.
See, many times we’d go down and visit her, and she was always playing
some kind of
trick on me, from down there, which they loved, and they would always
get a kick out of,
and she would use them to help her. Like, one day, for example, it was
my birthday —
and every box in all of Los Alamos, all the boxes, you know, the mail,
everybody’s got a
newspaper. We open it up and it says: “Entire Nation Celebrates Birthday
of R. P.
Feynman!” In the whole town of Los Alamos! This was her idea. She found
out a place
where she could write to get these newspapers printed the way you want.
She made up
some stuff for the newspaper. Then she asked some friend to get her a
list of as many
names as he could think of. That was a little troublesome because, you
know, censorship
— I don’t know how they did it, maybe he wrote them down, I don’t know
what. But
anyway, she had quite a long list of the names of people up at Los
Alamos that she’d
heard me mention, in one way or another. So there were a tremendous
number of these
newspapers. And so on. There were all kinds of crazy things. So
everybody liked her that
knew her. It wasn’t that the situation wasn’t known. So they knew me,
they knew her,
and the understood me enough that there weren’t long faces.
Weiner:
We’re back after a break. Returning now to Princeton, for more of an
account of the
transition between Princeton and Los Alamos, what occurred after
graduation, or would
the Wilson project?
Feynman:
I worked on this project for Wilson. There were a number of technical
problems that
developed. There were problems of behavior, what is now called plasma
physics, the
behavior of mixtures of ions and electrons. There was a theory of the
analysis of this
function operation, and there was calculating electric fields from
systems of grids, and so
on. I think we did, with Paul as an assistant; we did some fairly clever
things.
117
Weiner:
Who was your assistant?
Feynman:
Paul Olum. He was a mathematician and he joined the group also.
Meanwhile the
experimenters were making tests, and they obtained results which didn’t
agree with the
calculations, as far as I could see, and we had a lot of trouble trying
to figure out what
was the matter, how it was really working and so on. I learned something
there, in this
experience, because I felt that I held the project up quite a long time
by not noticing
what was causing the things that were happening — by not being able to
figure it out. As
a matter of fact, I had figured it out. See, they kept getting bunching
at currents much
bigger than I figured everything would be all right, and yet the bunches
were not simple.
They were mixed up and complicated. They weren’t clean and everything.
They never
did the experiment at the very low currents that I had the thing —
thought no effect of
space charge would occur. What I didn’t do — I never really trusted
theoretical physics
enough — it turned out, when we finally did understand it, that the
things were doing
exactly what the equations would say they would do, if that was the
amount of current
— namely, the bunch that was formed was springing back from their
electrostatic
repulsions and forming another bunch. It’s like the wave that slaps back
and forms a
secondary wave. So we were getting bunches, all right, but not the
original bunches. But
it turned out I could use at the end all the equations that I’d worked
out for high current
densities, but didn’t quite believe the thing. I was always skeptical of
theoretical physics.
I’d like to tell you a little dumb side story that shows my attitude. I
always had a feeling,
some kind of an idealistic belief that the practical man knew something,
and that the
theoretical business was not necessarily — a belief I don’t hold at all,
any more. One day
I was eating at a restaurant, and a workman came by, a painter, from the
nearby building.
He was painting there. We got into a conversation about how a painter
has to know his
business in so many ways, and so on. I agreed with him. He said, for
example, “How
would you paint this restaurant? What colors would you use?” And I made
some
suggestions. He explained it should be darker lower down, because your
customers make
marks on the walls with their elbows, and things touch — these ideas. A
very smart
painter. Then he said, “And mixing paint is very important. For example,
how would you
make yellow?” I said, “I don’t know how to make yellow. I would have to
make yellow
by putting yellow paint in.” He said, “Oh, no, you can make yellow by
mixing red and
white.” Well, I thought that by mixing red and white you would get pink.
I was very
surprised to hear that you would get yellow. Actually, I didn’t think
that you would get
yellow, and we had quite a discussion of this. I thought maybe it was a
special chemical
reaction with special paints? No, it was any ordinary red and white you
would buy at the
5 and 10, a red paint and a white paint, mix them together, and it would
make yellow. I
said I thought it would make pink. And the painter -– “Listen, sir,” he
says to me, “I’ve
been painting all my life. I’ve been working with paint, and I know
what’s going to
happen.” I said, “So all right, we’ll go down to the 5 and 10, and I’ 11
buy some paint,
118
and we’ 11 try it.” Here was the restaurant man. After the painter went
upstairs, he said,
“Listen, the man has been painting all his life and he says it’s going
to be yellow.” I said,
“Listen, I’ve been studying light all my life and I think it’s going to
be pink.” Or some
dumb remark. So I went out and got the paints and I brought them back,
and needless to
say, I was really happily pleased to discover that he was, as I
expected, unable to make
yellow paint at all. He finally said, “Well, you add a little tube of
yellow to this pink and
it’ll be yellow.” I said, “Of course then it’ll be yellow,” and we went
back into the
restaurant, and the painter went upstairs, and the restaurant man says,
“Imagine, add a
little tube of yellow to make it yellow. Of course it gives pink. He has
nerve, talking to a
man who’s studied light all his life!” But I actually never had — it’s
surprising, I realize
now—a real faith in the theoretical thing. I always felt that in the
real situation in nature,
the complexities might be beyond the idealizations of the analysis. It
always bothered
me, and so I didn’t trust it. The same in this project. I’d tried every
calculation I could
think of, but I probably hadn’t thought of everything — I mean, some
way, electrons
were doing something else, that there was some effect — I always had the
feeling I’d left
something out, and when the thing didn’t work at first, I just simply
figured, well, I’d left
something out. But as a matter of fact, I hadn’t. And that was the way
that I kept the
project back, in a way. At any rate, we did get some separation, and we
had samples that
we had to take back to Columbia to get tested and so on. But ultimately
it was decided
that this project was behind the project for separation that had started
at Berkeley, which
was electromagnetic stuff, and that they were going to build the plant
for separation
based on the other project, and that they didn’t have to develop this
any further. So a
decision was made not to continue this one. (I forget, my order isn’t
right) — During
this time when the project was running, from time to time, there was a
group of men
who were in charge of decided what to do next, how the project is going,
to make such
decisions as, which project is worth following. They had Karl Compton, I
think Urey —
no, I don’t know — Rabi, very important men. This is the first time I
met these great
guys. I guess Urey was in it. And they could come to Princeton to hear
about the project,
and the project boss, who was Wilson, and the head of the physics
department, Smythe,
would tell them about the project. But they would call me in because I
understood it, the
physics of it, theoretically, how it was working, and I would have to
describe to them
how it was working and so on. It was the first time that I ever saw a
group of very high
class men operating in a kind of committee, really great men. I was
very, very, impressed.
Because I would say something or other, you see, to explain some part,
and then they’d
start a discussion, and one man would say he thought it ought to be the
other way, you
know, we ought to do this, or it should be something. Then, let’s say,
Compton would
say in a few words the opposite, and give a logical reason. Then after
that everybody else
would be on the other side, opposite Compton, and nobody ever said the
same thing as
the guy ahead of him. And then they would say, “Well, what do you think
we should
do?” I think Compton’s argument was best.” Meanwhile I was sitting these
thinking,
“But they forgot, he’d said the sensible thing, Compton, then they’re
not paying any
attention to him!” And I was all upset. I was used to the kind of
discussion where you
repeat and repeat and repeat in order to convince the guy of what you
have to say. But it
was very impressive to me to hear these men discuss something. They
would put out the
119
various points of view, one after the other, and never repeat anything,
and at the end say,
“Well, look, the most impressive argument was Number 6.” I was very
impressed with
the way they did. Oppenheimer was on it too, and Tolman — these men, you
know,
who made these decisions. For a young fellow to hear this kind of talk
going on, that was
a very impressive thing.
Weiner:
Let’s review the committee — it was Rabi and Oppenheimer, Tolman, Karl
Compton,
and Smythe?
Feynman:
Smythe wasn’t on the committee; he was there because he as from
Princeton. I don’t
know whether Urey was on or not. I don’t remember. These things remind
me of things
— I would mention something completely irrelevant that has to do with
Urey. When I
was in high school, we had very little contact with scientists, not like
today. It was very
difficult, hard to get the books and everything else, but there was big
excitement — Urey
and Picard were going to give a lecture somewhere in Brooklyn. So I went
with some
friends to this special lecture. I was very impressed. Urey talked on
heavy water and
Picard couldn’t make it, so his wife talked about going up in the air in
a balloon. I
listened to Urey on the heavy water and was extremely impressed to see a
real scientist
for the first time whose name I had read in the paper. His lecture was
good and
technical, and it was fun. And that was my first contact with a real
scientist.
Weiner:
Was this at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn?
Feynman:
It’s possible. It’s possible. It was — but also, again connected with
Urey, which is
probably irrelevant but I’ll tell it anyway and we’ll waste the tape — I
had to take a
sample to Columbia, because only there do they have a way of measuring
the
proportions of the isotopes. We thought we had some separation, and I
took a sample to
Columbia. I was in a great hurry, so I put on my old sheepskin coat that
looked like hell
and went to Columbia with this sample. When I got there, there was
another man from
Yale or something who had some kind of a separation system. He had a
sample. He was
impeccable, with a nice little briefcase and so on. I looked like the
janitor. We came to
Columbia and tried to find the guy to tell him, “Here’s our sample from
Princeton,” and
so on. This other fellow was talking to him about the sample from Yale.
And they didn’t
pay any attention to me. Nobody paid any attention to me. But I knew
Urey was there,
and I had met him somewhere, somehow, and I went down to his office to
say
something, and he overheard me outside and said, “Oh, Feynman, come on
in.” I said,
120
“Ok.” I came in and hung this old sheepskin up. So then I told him, I
was having
trouble, they were not paying any attention to me, and I had this
sample. “Oh,” he said,
“we’ll fix that,” and they were very impressed. They were surprised and
disturbed when
they were told to pay attention to this funny-looking guy, he’s got a
sample of separated
uranium from Princeton. He was a very friendly man, a very nice man.
Anyhow, these
men decided that this project would be terminated, in spite of the work,
of course. I
mean, if it isn’t any better than the other thing, it doesn’t make any
difference that we did
an awful lot of work. Now came a new period, in which we knew that we
were going to
go to this laboratory at Los Alamos, but we were terminated ahead of
time. The
laboratory wasn’t ready. Wilson and the other young men were not the
kind of guys to
sit around. We couldn’t sit around, see. We had it in our blood to work
as hard and as
fast as we could, we can’t sit around. So Wilson thought that what we
ought to do is to
build equipment for measuring neutrons, for doing research that we would
need to do
associated with the bomb. But we didn’t know anything. We didn’t know
what they were
doing, what would be needed, and so on. So Wilson decided to send me to
Chicago,
where they knew something about it, where Teller and other people had
been working,
big names, Pyle and everything. See, we weren’t working on nuclear
reaction in any way.
To find out what the — was going on, so that I could come back and tell
them the
whole story. See, they didn’t know anything about the bomb. They didn’t
know any of
the details. The whole story of the bomb and everything else, what we
needed to
calculate, what we needed to measure, what the problems would be when we
got to Los
Alamos, so we could start building apparatus for the future experiments
to take with us
to Los Alamos. Therefore I was sent to Chicago. Wilson said, “The way to
find out —
see, you go there to Chicago, and you say, you go into any section and
you say, ‘I am
going to stay here to do some work. Do you have any problem that you
think I could
help you with?’ And have them describe to you in every detail the
problem, to such a
point that you really could sit down and work on it without asking any
more questions.
Then turn around and go into another office and do the same thing.” I
said, “That’s not
fair.” He said, “That’s all right, that’s what we’re going to do, and
that way you’ll know
everything, because we need the details, so we can make instruments and
know exactly
what we’re talking about, no missing parts. So you must in each case
know exactly what
you would do if you had to calculate it. Then come back.” So I did. I
went to Chicago,
and there I learned about the atomic bomb, how the action was supposed
to go, all the
details, how the pile went from one…
Weiner:
We’re just beginning the third reel of tape, first track; we ran out of
tape on the last reel
just at the point where we described your arrival in Chicago to gather
information.
Feynman:
I was sent to Chicago to gather information about all the studies — you
see, they had
been studying the problem in Berkeley, theoretically, to some extent,
but they — or, the
121
bomb itself — and then they had all the problems associated with the
nuclear reacting
pile that they were developing in Chicago. So all the business with
neutrons, fission, all
this stuff, was known at Chicago but not at Princeton, and I was sent
there to imbibe all
this stuff and come back and report it. I talked to Teller, for example,
all day long. He
explained things, explained things, and so on. Then I went to one office
after the other,
as Wilson had told me, and he’d told me to stay there as long as
necessary. I went — you
see, I asked him to tell me problems, and then I would get so I knew all
the details and
go out again. This way I learned all of the things that were known, all
about what the
problems would be in Los Alamos, how the bomb worked, roughly how much
energy
they expected, how much uranium they expected to need, what things they
had to
measure, what things depended on, things like reflecting material for
the neutrons. We
had to measure the cross section for bouncing neutrons back. We had to
measure the
probability of fission, the number of neutrons that came out of fission,
and all these
things, what was known and what was not known. And so on. One
interesting thing — I
felt uncomfortable about going in these offices and having these men
spend so much
time to explain to me the problem and then walking out, but in one
office they did spend
time, explained to me the problem—it was more mathematical, a certain
integral that
they needed to have done, and they’d worked on it for months, in some
way or other. So
I just looked at it. I said, “Well, you can do that integral A if you
can do integral B,
directly in terms of integral B, but integral B is a Bessel function so
this should be easy.”
So the guy looked at me. He said, “My God, how do you do A if you do B,
first? And
how did you know B was a Bessel function?” Because as a matter of fact,
in trying to do
it, somebody noticed if they changed it to B, which is not what we
wanted to do, they
could do it, and they found out in fact it was a Bessel function, and we
had done it. We
had all the tables for it for the case B. I said, “It won’t take you
more than half an hour
to get case A.” The method I used was differentiation with respect to
parameters on the
integral side, which is something I had learned well in high school from
the book by Mr.
Woods. I thought it was a delightful invention and a great idea and I
used to do it all the
time. I learned that trick in high school. It’s the same business. I can
do integrals because
I’ve been doing them so long. They were very impressed with this. It was
a man who was
working under Wigner. And so they decided to take me out to lunch for
this thing. And
at lunch the man said to Wigner, “How can we be so silly that we didn’t
notice it, so
stupid that we didn’t notice this, all this time we’ve been working and
we didn’t notice
it.” Wigner turned to the fellow and said, “Don’t feel bad. Feynman is a
very clever
man.” It was hard for me to understand why they didn’t think of it. It
was a rather
simple idea.
Weiner:
How long were you in Chicago?
Feynman:
I can’t remember. It may have been two weeks, I suppose. Anyway, I felt,
because I’d
122
done that, and it was such a hard problem, they’d spent so much effort
on it, and it was
done so neatly, that I’d at least paid back the efforts in time that
they spent on me.
Anyhow, I came back then with a little briefcase full of all kinds of
information, notes
and everything else. I guess I wasn’t too worried about secrecy. I don’t
remember how I
handled it. I came back to Princeton, and they got everybody together in
one of the
classrooms, about 30 guys associated with the project, maybe 20
important guys and I
came in and told them the whole business, you see. Said, “This is the
way we’re going to
make a bomb. This is going to be —” All this kind of stuff and business,
the problems
they had –- “This is what we have to measure.” I had it all figured out.
I remember this
moment, because after, Paul Olum said, “Someday when they make a history
of this and
they make a moving picture of the dramatic moment at which the men of
Princeton
learn about the bomb, and all this stuff from Moran, and the
representative comes back
from Chicago and presents the information, it’ll be a very serious
situation, with
everybody sitting in their suit coats, and the man comes in with his
briefcase in a suit” —
he said, “Look, everybody starts talking, there are jokes, there’s —” he
said, “It’s very
interesting how real life is different than one imagines it.” I
therefore put this in —
because it was informal, in a way. I mean, everybody was serious, we all
knew what it
was, but it isn’t in the same kind of seriousness that the spy movie
would have you think,
you see — scientists working… Anyhow, that’s the way it was. Then they
began to build
equipment to go to Los Alamos. There appeared to be some delay. I
believe — although
you’ll have to check it because I only heard it from underwater — the
delay was caused
by arguments between Oppenheimer and General Groves or somebody on the
question
of secrecy in the place. Oppenheimer was trying to maintain that the
various scientists
within the laboratory should be able to talk to each other about
anything, where the
other was trying to get them separated. He said, “We won’t do anything
unless we do it
this way,” and so on, and there was some delay. At any rate, for one
reason or another,
things were going fairly slowly. Wilson was straining at the leash. We
were all straining at
the leash. He went down to Los Alamos to see what the devil there was
there. They were
building down there. He came back to complain (a) that they were
building a theater
before they finished the laboratory and (b) that there was nobody down
there to tell the
guys, the men who were building, why, for example, they needed so many
gas lines or
how many water lines in different laboratories, and these fellows were
making changes
on a lot of things. It wasn’t designed right. There were lots of
questions which weren’t
being answered. They were kind of slow on account of that, and he was
upset about that,
and so on. He spent a few days there straightening them out, telling
them what to do,
then went back. Again, still, there were little bits of delays. So
Manley, another young
fellow from Chicago who was head of a group that was going to go to Los
Alamos,
called Wilson on the phone, and the two of them arranged that they would
simply go. So
the groups went. We went before it was ready.
Weiner:
How many in your group?
123
Feynman:
Well, there were probably 20, 30 people. So we started to go. We just
went. They went
crazy at the other end. The housing wasn’t ready and the laboratories
weren’t ready,
mostly the housing, and they went all over and they rented ranches and
so on. So when
we first got there, we lived in ranch houses off the site and had cars
to go there to the
site. The first time, when I got there, when I arrived, I stayed at the
ranch house. It was a
beautiful thing, of course very interesting for anybody from the East to
go to the West
was a very interesting experience. Then you went up this big road up
onto this plateau
— you know Los Alamos and how beautiful it is and interesting —
mysterious Shangri-
La. We went up on this road. For an Easterner to see this Western
scenery, under such
circumstances, for the first time — where we were going to live; what we
were going to
do — it was very exciting.
Weiner:
You were all very young? The group was characterized but its
youthfulness?
Feynman:
Yes. My age was about the usual. When I arrived, I arrived a few days
later than the
others (that having to do with transporting my wife and so on), and when
I got there, up
to the site the first morning, there was Paul Olum, my assistant, with a
clipboard and
paper, checking the trucks of dirt and boards that were coming in the
gate, you know,
checking them off — how many loads of lumber. Then I went into the
building just
finished, one of the few buildings that was finished, and somebody said,
“This is John
Williams — Dick Feynman” — you know. And I had heard of John Williams.
He had
his name on papers in nuclear physics. I’d heard of many people but this
was when I first
met them. He was somebody I respected a great deal, big scientist, you
know. His job —
he was in his shirt sleeves, sitting there with big blueprints all over
the place in front of
him, like he was a building inspector or contractor. He gets up, “Hi,
glad to meet you,”
and sits down — some workman comes over and he says, “Now, you put a
line in here,
you put this in there.” In other words, we went up there, and the
experimenters who had
nothing to do because there was no laboratory, finished the building.
They helped the
contractor. They just went in there and they checked the trucks, they
carried the
blueprint information over, you know, they did everything that the
contractors would
do, to make it faster, to help them. So it was a very exciting
interesting thing. Dust from
the trucks, half-finished buildings — you have to get a picture of it.
We were there ahead
of time. And we helped to make it, you see. I don’t know if this appears
anywhere, but it
was an exciting business. Anyhow, after some time, after rather a short
time, it was
decided that — you see there were some old school buildings. There was a
school there
originally that the theoretical physicists should live up there and not
have to drive,
because they could work. The others had nothing to work with, but there
was a building
that was finished, and what do we need? Nothing and we had nothing.
There were no
124
chairs in the rooms. There was one blackboard which was on rollers, for
a lecture, you
know; it would be rolled from room to room. We had many conferences,
where we all
got together, and we would outline the bomb problems, like Oppenheimer
or someone
there thought about it in Berkeley and they were trying to tell us all
the things that they
thought. So people like Oppenheimer and Segre and so on would be
explaining these
things. And we would sit on the floor, and borrow a blackboard to
operate. Of course, it
gradually improved, rather rapidly — we’d get chairs the next day — I
can’t remember
exactly, but it was a very exciting beginning. We started working
immediately, first, but
learning what the others were thinking about different problems, and I
had set myself a
problem, from before I arrived, from stuff I had heard at Chicago, and
possibly with
Wilson’s help. It was to make what they called a water boiler, which is
to make, when
they got stuff that was separated, a reaction with slow-moving neutrons
with the water
around it with enriched uranium, to design it and figure it out how it
should be and how
we could do it and what we could measure with it, and how much material
we’d need
and so on. So, on trains, for instance when I had to wait at the guard
gate for some time
the first time I came up or the second, because something was wrong, I
sat in the truck
cab and calculated. All the time — you see, we didn’t want to waste any
time and so on.
There was a terrific excitement — not to waste anything, you know. So we
worked very
hard at this. Living up at the site, in this school place — actually it
was worse than I
described it. They had a lot of beds on a long balcony, and they had a
list downstairs,
which bed number is yours and which bathroom you’re supposed to change
in. Well, I
couldn’t find the bed number, and I found out there as no number for
where I should
change, and so on. It was quite a mess. But I met for the first time men
like Serber,
Christy, and so forth.
Weiner:
Had you met Oppenheimer before?
Feynman:
I had, because when we were trying to get arrangements he had come. I
had also seen
him when he came to the conferences, I believe, at Princeton. Anyway I
did meet him
when he came to get the men, to talk to each one individually into
going. He in fact
called me at one point long distance from Chicago about something
involving going, and
my wife, and I was very, very impressed. I had never got a long distance
call from such a
distance and so on. That I remember –- yeah — going into it, for the
first time, all these
things are really quite exciting. If somebody bothers to call you from
Chicago to tell you
that they’ve found a hospital for your wife — you know, and so on.
Really, they were
working on it. I was sorry to bother him with relatively trivial
problems when he had so
many people that he was trying to get to the thing, you see. Anyhow, we
did start to
work and things improved a little. We got chairs and desks and filing
cabinets and this
and that, rather rapidly, and blackboards and so on. But in the first
few weeks — there
were many men I had heard of, you know, like Teller, Weisskopf — I don’t
know how
125
many I had ever met, exactly, but if I met them all I met them only from
a distance or
quickly, like Bethe was there. I’d only met him a little bit before, you
know — not really
met him, seen him — and there were all these great minds and great names
that I knew
of. They were great people. When I got up there, in the second or third
week (I can’t
remember exactly) there was a kind of accident, that all of the
important men had to
leave. Weisskopf had to go back to check something, he was selling his
house or
something. Teller was out because of something. Everybody was away
except Bethe,
who was the head of the theoretical division, and Bethe apparently
needed somebody to
talk to when he had an idea to make it was Ok. He wandered around. He
went into my
office. We’d never met before, but he couldn’t find anybody, and be
started to explain
his idea. I’m kind of dopey — just like it happens in the lecture that I
gave where I was
nervous but the moment I started to talk physics, I’m only thinking
physics —
Weiner:
You mean that lecture in the first colloquium at Princeton?
Feynman:
Right. The same thing always happens to me when I’m thinking physics.
I’m 100 percent
involved. So he started to talk a little bit, and when he would tell me
something, I’d start
thinking, and I’d say, “No, that’s crazy, you see —” Without thinking,
who am I talking
to? or anything. “Crazy” and he’d say “Why?” and I would explain — he’d
say, “No, you
see, you’re wrong,” and he’d explain back, and of course I was wrong.
This went on
again and again, and I kept saying these things and he’d point out I was
wrong and so
on. Finally he went out of the office. Then I kind of woke up, you know.
I said, “My
God, what am I doing? I’ve told him he was wrong a million times and I
was wrong
every time?” But apparently that’s just what he wanted. He wanted
someone who, he
felt, was checking, really checking the thing. And none of these guys
are really worried if
you tell them they’re crazy. They argue only on the physics, not on the
human. So
apparently he was very happy with this, and he kept coming into my
office. Then when
the other guys come back, we had a good relationship, Bethe and I. He
would still
discuss things with me a lot. So I kind of was lucky in that respect,
you know. We
discussed many things of this kind. At the beginning I was always wrong.
After a while,
once in a while I would catch him out, but usually not. People used to
say that to hear
the two of us talking was to watch a battleship and a mosquito boat,
because he would
plow through the subject slowing, uniformly, correctly and so on, not
deflected in the
one direction or the other, working something out, while I would jump to
conclusion –-
“No, no, wait a minute, that’s wrong, let it go like this,” and so on.
Once in a while I’d
bump into something that he heading for, but usually he was going all
right, you know. It
was amusing. Anyway, I wanted to mention that relationship, which was
quite close, and
we always discussed many things together. We had lots and lots of
problems. I don’t
know whether I should discuss all the technical problems with things. It
was very
interesting. Sometimes I felt that we were doing some kind of work which
was new and
126
different and had never been done before. First, it’s a pleasure to work
on a problem of
this kind where there’s an application, aside from the war and all this
sort of stuff, where
there’s an application, for a person who’s trying to work on fundamental
problems all
the time. The reason is that in a fundamental problem, like what’s wrong
with quantum
electrodynamics, great minds have already worked and not gotten an
answer. Right? And
it’s also obvious that this is the problem, so other people are working
on it. In other
words, a problem is hard by elimination, you understand? So you can work
very hard and
get no success. If you get success you get an enormous gold ball, Ok?
But the odds are
against it. Whereas, on a problem that has an application, like this,
nobody’s done
anything yet, much. It’s a new kind of problem. There are a lot of new
problems
generated by this implicational subject. So in this engineering, this
bomb building
business — that hasn’t been worked over. The problem, so to speak, comes
off for the
first time, and there you happen to be standing. So it turns out that
all the problems are
easier. They’re all easier. And there are many of them, and you get a
large number of
small successes. You get perpetually little bangs, you see, with the
happy result that you
can work this thing out. You work that thing out, then you work this
thing, that’s pretty
clever; then you get this, and you do all kinds of — so that Los Alamos
was for me, as
far as the scientific work is concerned, a very happy time, without the
very long periods
of frustration and confusion which appear when you’re working on the
more important
problems.
Weiner:
You thought you were making steady gains, then.
Feynman:
Well, I was solving this problem, then I’d turn to another one. It’s not
the same thing.
There wasn’t just one problem. There were many side questions. How can
we design an
efficient fission counter? The fission counters that we designed had
this, that and that
difficulty, so — “I’ve got an idea” — boom, it’s a great idea. Then you
turn to another
problem. You see?
Weiner:
I know what you mean by that, the different problems, the excitement,
the many small
successes. But when I said making gains, I meant on the total
application, nearer your
goal —
Feynman:
— oh, of course, yes —
127
Weiner:
— so there was some satisfaction in that, I imagine.
Feynman:
Maybe. But actually I think the satisfaction of solving the challenges
directly, not entirely
in terms of their environment exactly, was also a kick. See, I got
certain pleasures out of
just this matter of designing a fission counter. I had never designed
equipment for
apparatus, for experiment. I designed it. That was the first time I
found out how it was
to design for an experiment, equipment, and how to estimate ahead of
time how many
counts you were going to get and all this. I learned an awful lot at Los
Alamos. That was
an early problem. Then as we went on there were many problems. One that
I felt we
really contributed to — we did discover a way of solving — see, I got
into the problem.
We got groups after a while, small groups, and then there were group
leaders of these
groups. I was a group leader and had a group of four or five fellows,
which included
[Fred] Reinnes and Ashkin and Welton; people who knew each other and
knew me, so
we worked together. Welton and Nicholas Metropolis.
Weiner:
How many in the group?
Feynman:
— the leader of the small group —
Weiner:
— was it broken down?
Feynman:
Oh. The whole laboratory was broken down into different divisions —
experimental
division, bomb physics, experiments on explosives, experimental
chemistry, metallurgy,
and theoretical physics. I was in the theoretical physics division, but
like other divisions,
that division was divided into groups, and the groups would have
somewhat different
problems assigned to them, depending on how things were going, what the
next problem
was. This group business came a little later than the first few months.
It settled down.
Our group had a number of problems, and the one that I felt we did the
best on — we
had a relatively hard problem for the era, and that was — see, other
people could make
approximations; all the neutrons have the same energy and so on. We had
the problem
of the stuff, say, mixed with hydrogen. For instance — in which the
neutron energy
would vary considerably, and there was no easy approximation, they were
all slow or
128
they were all fast. Then the collision between one atom and the next —
there’s no
approximation — if it hits it comes out equally in all directions,
because when it hits
hydrogen, it goes more likely in one direction than in another.
Furthermore, those which
are going forward have the most energy, more than those that are going
at an angle on a
lower end, so everything depended on everything. It was no easy
approximation.
Nevertheless, we invented, to work out how much uranium or uranium
hydride one
would need, mathematical techniques which would bracket the answer on
each side —
the answer was between this and this — and the two brackets were
extremely close
together. I felt it was very good. It was one of the hardest problems
that I did there, and
I invented this technique. I invented a whole lot of other gadgets and
things, and a large
number of small inventions, every one of which I’m rather — well, kind
of proud of.
There were some rather beautiful solutions given to a large number of
small problems,
the best of which was this rather not so small problem. But I haven’t
seen it used
anywhere else, nor do I know where to apply it, but I’m sure that the
technique was
worthwhile.
Weiner:
Let me interrupt at this point. For the first time now you have
responsibility over other
people.
Feynman:
Yeah, that’s true.
Weiner:
How did you react to this?
Feynman:
I didn’t feel it much in the group, because there were five guys, all of
them friends, very
nice fellows, and there was no problem of any kind. Welton would go to
sleep, as he
always had the habit, but we all knew it and we let him sleep, and if
other people were
coming around, if we could we would keep them from coming in his room,
because to
see him sleeping in there with everybody working so hard in the middle
of the day always
looked kind of funny to people. But we knew it was a five minute thing.
He’d sleep for
five minutes and then, zang, you know. So… Other than that there wasn’t
anything. I
don’t remember any problems at all at this level, because the people
were all equivalent. I
mean, although I was the leader, we were all good guys working hard. I
don’t mean good
in a moral sense. They were all very, very, capable fellows. We all
worked together on
these things, and there was no problem. It wasn’t as if there was a
boss. The relations
were very good, the same as relations of me to Bethe and our group to
Bethe — there
was no problem, “The other group is doing this, why can’t we do this?”
The whole of
129
Los Alamos, because of the terrific pressures involved, was extremely
easy — or anyway,
it was so well administered that there was not, as far as I know (at
least as far as I know)
a great deal of biting and clawing. There was just a complete exchange
of problems and
so on, and all the time a lot of cooperation between the groups, etc.,
etc. I don’t think I
will describe the special problems, I don’t think that it’s — Of course,
it is, in a way. If
it’s physics, it’s interesting. See, everything fits together. For
example, I was very good at
doing integrals, and, for a reason that I don’t know, especially good at
doing numerical
calculations. I knew how to organize arithmetic so that you did a
minimum amount of
work to get the answer, and apparently that talent is not very
widespread. I didn’t know
that until I got there. Because, on the way home from lunch often, I
would walk through
the computing division, the computing department. See, the theorists in
different groups
would give problems to the computing department. I would walk through
the computing
department and look over the shoulder of a girl and say, “That’s wrong,
that number.”
Things like that, you see. Or I’d go through and say, “What are you
doing?” and they’d
explain. I’d say, “That’s not the way to do that problem,” and I’d go to
the guy who gave
it and explain to him a way of doing it five times faster. You’d think a
guy like this would
be annoying, but no, everybody liked it. Anyway you could improve was
all right, it
didn’t make any difference. There were no personal difficulties, you
see. If I’d say “It’s
wrong” it was to help, and everybody knew it. It was no problem. So I
used to be able to
do this, go around the computing department. One of the (for me) most
amusing things
was, a man was trying to work out an integral differential equation,
complicated thing —
the third root of something is a complicated integral, with a kernel and
everything, an
integral equation with derivatives, and he was integrating this three
times, because the
third derivative by Simpson’s rule — but he had to first calculate this
integral kernel,
many integrals — a long and elaborate thing. I looked at the kernel and
I noticed that
that operation was the one-half derivative. You remember I told you that
I’d worked out
that from before? I’m just telling you the connection. I looked —
one-half derivative —
so I figured, his equation is a non-linear 3 1/2 order differential
equation; it said, “the 3
1/2 derivative of U is U squared,” that’s all there was to it. So I
figured: Now, look,
there’s numerical ways of doing one integration, Simpson’s rule — of
doing a double
integral, doing triple integral, see. Is there a way? Or at least there
was of single integral
and maybe double, you could invent them. What about inventing a
numerical method of
doing half an integral? So I cooked up a numerical scheme for doing half
an integral in
one step. Then to do three integrals, the three integrals which he did
by Simpson’s rule
in succession, I made up a new numerical rule to do three integrals in
succession and
extrapolate to the next point, and it turns out by some freakish
accident that the
numerical method is one order higher or two orders higher than it ought
to be. You see,
in any numerical method you are doing some polynomial to approximate the
curve.
Then the error is the first degree of polynomial that’s higher than the
number of points
that you’ve taken. You can’t fit. Well, there’s an error that comes when
there’s one
higher order derivative. It has a coefficient, such as Simpson’s rule,
the 4th derivative
times 1 over 180 times the integral to the 4th or something. Well, the
thing that would
correspond to 1 over 180 for this problem was zero. It was accident that
with this
particular method, the coefficient of the error was zero, and it was
much more accurate.
130
So that was cute, that three times integration extrapolated can be done
so accurately, and
that was not known before. And the numerical way of doing the half
integral was very
amusing. I got a terrific kick out of that, and ended up inventing a
numerical method to
do the problem, a special problem, but this is the kind of thing that’s
not generalizable.
But it was so much more efficient that in spite of the work I did to
find the method,
develop it, explain it and do it, I got way ahead of the guys that were
doing it slowly. And
they just stopped, because they had this other scheme.
Weiner:
Do you consider this as play, really?
Feynman:
Yes, a great deal of it is play, you see. I mean, I look for problems
and I do things. I
know, but play that was contributing, you see, and not fiddling around.
I never fiddled
around there. I played a lot, but I always played in a way that was
directed. I could always
explain the play as not useless, you see. There was a tremendous amount
of play. That’s
really what it was — so many problems — I’d look for them, because I
liked all these
crazy things. Yes, very much like play. But always with a purpose in the
end. Now, along
that time a problem developed. They had had trouble. We began to get —
let’s see, how
did it work? They began to be able to produce a little bit of separated
isotopes from the
plant in Tennessee, sort of on an experimental basis. And they had made
surveys, I mean
tests, of the proportions, of the degree of separation. They had
calibrated the degree of
separation at Tennessee. Then they would send us the samples, and Segre
and the others
who received them would measure the proportions, and it didn’t agree. We
were just
getting tiny little samples to do experiments with that they had
separated in their
attempts to test their equipment before they put 200 of them together,
you see. That was
the stage. The plants were getting ready, but sort of pilot experiments
were being done
with the equipment, you see. And it didn’t check. They had many things
back and forth
that didn’t check. Finally Segre and company said, “We can’t straighten
this out unless
we go down there and find out what they’re doing to make the test.
They’re doing
something wrong, and we can’t do it by mail,” and so on. This was very
much against the
rules. See, the Army’s rules, or Mr. Groves’ or something was one
department like
Tennessee does not have to know what’s going on at Los Alamos or
anything about the
bomb. They just separate the uranium. And the other side, we’ll tell
them anything they
need to know, the other side, Los Alamos, doesn’t have to know how the
plant works,
what it looks like or anything. It was the secrecy. It sounded like a
good idea. But there
was this problem of communication. So finally it was broken down.
Oppenheimer or
somebody helped to break down this so that they would be able to go to
Tennessee to
talk to those guys, rather than the other way, because the secrecy was
much more
important. So they went, Segre and two or three other guys, went, and as
they were
walking through the plant, they see a little bit of what the plant is
like. And the guys are
practicing already. They haven’t got the thing separated yet, but
they’re practicing with
131
the chemical process and so on, where it was partly built, and they’re
partly going
through the motions of the operations. And they see great barrels of
bluish-green water
being carried on dollies and so on, boxes, and cardboard boxes with
salts of various
kinds stored in a room — and while they see it they say, “What’s that
stuff? Is that
uranium?” “Yeah.” “Well, when your plant gets operating, you’re going to
separate it,
you’re not going to handle it like that, are you, partly separate it…”
They said, “Sure,
why not.” “Won’t it explode?” they said innocently. And this caused a
terrible
excitement, you see. Well, to make the story shorter, they didn’t know,
in Tennessee.
They had been told that there was no danger whatsoever. Segre saw these
bottles of
water with this stuff in it — realized, of course, as we all do, that
when you put it in
water, because it slowed down the neutrons and made them much more
effective, you’d
need very much less stuff, and so on. He realized that there was a
danger. And he didn’t
think that they didn’t know that there was a danger, you see. The Army’s
first reaction
was: “It just shows you we shouldn’t let these guys in.” But their
second reaction was to
wake up. The point was, they had been told that it wouldn’t explode
because
presumably, my guess is, that they had been told how much stuff we
needed for a bomb,
which would be worked dry and very efficiently to get as much energy out
as possible,
not to get the reaction to go at all, and so on — not just to get the
reaction to go. The
Army, then, hearing that number, simply said, “It’s so big they’re never
going to get all
that in one barrel, there’s no danger.” But the fact is that with water
solutions and other
chemical solutions, you could accumulate stuff to explode. So there was
a great moment
of excitement just prior to the plant beginning to operate, when it was
discovered that a
new thing had to be worried about, the safety. Ok? I just set the
situation up. Well, Segre
was then authorized by Oppenheimer to go through the entire plant and
make a list of
all possible accumulation points where there might be danger. So he and
his cohorts (I
don’t remember who they were) made this thing and sent back to Los
Alamos. See, it
was an emergency problem for us, and we were set. I remember getting
this thing and
looking it through. Then we had a division of labor. Christy and his
group calculated
water solution, what the critical limits are, in the various
circumstances, like in a plant —
you know, what would happen if you mixed, how to do it, if you put
cadmium in how
much you would stop it. In some cases there was carbon tetrachloride.
Well, the chlorine
will absorb the neutrons and that’s OK. And all these questions of
liquids. I was to
calculate, in my group, the dry solids, the boxes full of salts, you
see, against the brick
walls — what were their limitations. You can get a lot more in a dry
solid than in a
liquid, and it was much harder to calculate, but anyway, that’s what we
did, and we did it
as fast as we could. But unlike calculating for the bomb, we took safety
limits. It’s easier
to calculate something that’s safe, than exactly what it is, you know. I
mean, I can’t say
657 so and so’s going to explode. I can say, I know it isn’t going to
explode with 302.
You know? It’s much easier. You don’t have to be so accurate. So anyhow
we got this all
prepared. An emergency business — all work at Los Alamos, a lot of work
in
theoreticals, was stopped for a couple of weeks or so while we did this
as fast as we
could. We had to do it fast because the plant was getting ready to go,
and they were not
allowed to go until this thing was looked into, you see, so it was a
very great and
interesting emergency, very exciting. So Christy is going to go tell
them about the thing,
132
and I give my stuff to Christy, all my numbers, explain everything to
him, and breathe a
sigh of relief. Then he got pneumonia –- Christy — and was in the
hospital, and I was
going to have to go. So Christy gave me all his information about water
and gave me my
stuff back about solids, and said, “Good day.” Then I was sent across
country to tell
them about this thing. Oppenheimer said to me — before I left he called
me up and
said, “Now, about the safety thing, I want you to make sure that the
following men are
in the meeting when you first tell them the problem, because they’re the
men there that
know physics enough to understand. You tell them, the situation, what to
do — but
don’t directly tell the Army. Make sure that it’s not you telling the
Army and the Army is
going to be responsible, because they don’t know enough. I mean, they’re
nice, but
you’ve got to get somebody there who knows physics.” They gave me names,
Webb and
a few others, and so on, to do it. So I said: “Well, suppose they
arrange a meeting and
these fellows aren’t there?” “Well, you ask for them,” says Oppenheimer.
“But suppose
that they say no for some reason, secrecy or something?” He said, “Then
you say, ‘Los
Alamos cannot then accept the responsibility for the safety of the Oak
Ridge Plant.’” I
said, “You mean me, little Richard Feynman, is going to say that?” He
said, “Yes, little
Richard Feynman, you’re going to say that.” Growing up, yeah. So I got
on the airplane
to go across. I went by air. I’d never traveled by air before. (Just
giving you the level, you
know, the way it looks to the human end of it.) It was very exciting.
You see, in that day
we had to have priorities to fly. Then at one place, we’d fly, and we
had to land — in
those days you had to land in many places, like a bus trip, you know, as
you went across.
I think it was in Kansas City somewhere that we got off the airplane for
a while, and
then a lot of big important looking cats, some generals, important
looking businessmen
— and some guy’s standing there, swinging his gold watch round on a
string, and he’s
talking. I look like a kid, you know. And he says to me, “It must be
extremely hard to fly
without priorities in these days.” So I said, “Well, I don’t know. I
have a priority.” So
he’s still swinging. I mean, he was such an important what do you call
it — the way he
treated me, you know. He keeps swinging away, you know, he says, “Well,
you know,
some of us Number 4s are going to get bumped. I hear there are some
generals getting
on here.” Then I kind of leaned — I said, “That’s all right. I have a
Number 3.” He
probably wrote to his Congressman, “What are they doing? They give a
priority to some
kid.” Anyway, with all this information, I got to Oak Ridge. (I tell
this just because it is
very interesting to me.) I go to Oak Ridge, and the first thing, they
asked me a lot of
questions. “I’m not saying anything. I want to go through the plant. I
want to see with
my own eyes what I got on the report from Segre,” and so on. “Ok.” And I
went
through this plant. I discovered it was worse than they thought. There
were a few things,
like they would describe a room that had boxes of something; then they
would describe
another room that had barrels of something and another room that had
bottles of
something. Well, they had confusion going through the plant, because
they were
following the process. And it was the same room that they would go in
several times.
The boxes are on one side, the barrels on another. I am convinced that
if they had
simply started to separate the uranium, they would have had an accident.
I don’t mean an
explosion, but they would have had a nuclear reaction in some
accumulation somewhere,
relatively fast, and it would have made neutrons and radioactivity all
over the plant, and
133
there would have been a terrible calamity. I’m convinced of it, from the
circumstances.
Anyway, I went through the plant. I kept my trap shut. I didn’t go and
say, “Oh, ah!” —
nothing. I recorded everything in my mind, and that evening, I spent the
whole night —
I was practically awake the entire night — preparing for a meeting the
next morning in
which I would tell them the situation. I went through everything. I
worked very hard on
it. I have a fairly good short term memory, but not a good long term
memory. When I
work very hard on something I can remember it, and in all this stuff I
remember the
building numbers and the equipment numbers, you see, the tank No. 16 and
building
9206 — because that’s the way they would tell it to me. “Now we’ll go
into building
9206,” “This is tank so and so” — all this junk, this useless stuff, I
would remember. I
remembered it — for one day, is all — but when I was making my
calculations and
figuring and analyzing and so on, I thought in terms of this tank and
that number and so
forth. So I was very impressive the next day, when I could tell them
that in tank no. 74 in
building 9206 requires this, and can be repaired, and so on. It worked
out very nicely. I
made a big effect. While I did it, I prepared a kind of a speech in
which I’d explain how
the uranium underwent fission, how the neutrons came out, about slow
neutrons and
fast neutrons, what the effect of water was, why cadmium would slow the
reactions, and
so on — in order that they could understand how to be safe. I don’t
believe — I didn’t
believe it was possible to make the plant safe, under the circumstances,
because it was a
complete — It’s like you build something when nobody even knows there is
such a thing
as fire, and it evidently could have burnt up because there’s a flame
standing there and
there’s a piece of silk hanging over it, you see. You have to understand
something about
it to make it really stick. Well, the higher-ups had to understand — not
just a series of
arbitrary rules concocted by an expert from Los Alamos, but an
understanding, for real
safety. So the next day I came to go to the meeting. I had a lieutenant.
They gave me a
lieutenant to take me around all the time, Zumwalt or something, his
name was. At the
beginning of the meeting, Colonel Nichols said to me, through Zumwalt —
he said to
me that the Colonel said that he doesn’t want them to know anything
about — it’s not
necessary to tell them anything about the way nuclear reactions go, or
something; just tell
them what’s safe. So I reported. I said to the Colonel: “I do not feel
that’s the way to do
it, that it would be safe that way. It is necessary to give this
information in order to make
the plant safe, in my opinion.” I was ready, of course, for the next
operation: “WE AT
LOS ALAMOS CANNOT ACCEPT THE RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE SAFETY
OF OAK RIDGE” — but I didn’t have to make that. Now, I was very
impressed with
these guys, colonels and generals. Very hard decision. The meeting is
starting in five
minutes. He goes to the window and looks out. They had never had this
kind of
exchange of information before. He asked for my opinion and I explained
it. I explained
why I had the opinion. He explained that it was dangerous that they
should know this
information. I explained that it was also dangerous if the plant didn’t
work. You know?
Not a long argument. I misrepresent it. It was three minutes. He goes to
the window and
looks out the window. He comes back. He says, “All right.” He makes the
decision. I
don’t know how they do it. Anyway, then the meeting started. I went
through the
meeting. I told them that the plant would explode. Why? I explained
about neutrons,
how everything worked, how it would explode, how it had to be
redesigned, but it wasn’t
134
very difficult. In the water solutions they could put a cadmium salt, if
it doesn’t disturb
the chemistry, and in this part of the chemistry it probably wouldn’t.
That is a special
problem. In that case we could surround it by a cadmium sheet. In this
stuff we put
boron solution, because cadmium would have an effect. “In Building 9216,
in Tank 74,
we can do it by doing this,” you see. “In such and such circumstances in
the store room,
we just have to get a bigger store room, and pack the boxes separated
from one another,
definitely, by building wooden platforms and so on, the way you put the
boxes, so they
can’t be stacked next to one another so you get too much in one place” —
etc. So I told
them the trouble, I told them the solutions. I told them, “some places I
haven’t worked
out the solutions,” and so on. It was a very exciting moment for me.
This was the first
time when I was telling anybody anything really, you know. It was a very
important
thing. So I was in a great and important position at that moment. After
that I had to
return to Tennessee from time to time, every month or so, to give
advice, you see, to
kind of confirm. Like, they had started some man to calculating himself.
I had given him
rules and formulas, so he could figure his own things out, and he wanted
his hand held. I
mean, they wanted his hand held, to make sure that he was doing it
right, and this and
that, so I had to go back and check. In addition, the company was
building a new plant.
It wasn’t ready yet. They were designing a plant for handling enriched
material (a future
plant) and with this stuff, the problem was even more serious. They had
to separate
things, and they had all these matters to take into account in design.
So one time I
returned — next time I returned to Tennessee, this company was ready
with their new
plans. They wanted me to check their plans, if they were safe. And one
of the things we
had to worry about was if valves jammed or something, like, say, an
evaporator is
evaporating the liquid from some uranium, so it keeps accumulating
uranium, or if a
valve gets stuck somewhere and stuff begins to pile up — you had to
worry about all
that. So they showed me these plans. They took me into a room, a room
with a very long
table — it must have been 15, 18 feet long and 5 or 6 feet wide —
stacked with
blueprints. The designers, the blueprint men, you know, the company men
— they
brought me into this room and they said, “Here’s the design. Now, we
have designed
this thing so that if any valve gets stuck — not one valve getting stuck
alone would allow
any accumulation. We always have a safety way,” and all this, it had
been carefully
worked out and so forth. Well, I had taken engineering drawing at MIT. I
didn’t
remember it too well. And here are these blueprints. Well, they got
started fast, because I
was so impressive the time before, and they thought I knew everything,
you know: I
knew all about neutrons, so I knew everything. Although lots of people
knew about
neutrons, for them, I was like a god. So they thought I knew everything,
they started
right in explaining about the plant — and here’s millions of lines on
these things,” and
so here, the plant goes down, and carbon tetrachloride goes up on the
second floor,”
and then they flipped a lot of paper up and they climbed down into the
sheets of the
blueprints –- “Here’s the second floor.” They go up and down. I’m trying
to follow as
fast as I can, and I notice — most of thing I understand, more of less —
but all over the
paper there’s a rectangle with a cross across it on the diagonal, and I
don’t know what
that is. So I’m thinking to ask, you know. Did you ever —? You must have
gotten into
this situation: you think to ask, and then you hesitate — maybe I can
figure it out — and
135
then the later it gets, the more they’ve told you, the more embarrassed
you are to ask
after they’ve told you all this stuff and it shows you weren’t
understanding anything —
you know? So I got in deeper and deeper. I got in more and more in
trouble with this. I
couldn’t ask. So finally I got an idea. I thought, “maybe it’s a valve”
— I was guessing.
(This is absolutely true — I’m just telling you, this is absolutely
true, incredible but true.)
I put my hand on one of those crosses to find out if it’s a valve, and I
say, “What
happens if this valve gets stuck?” — you see? To see if it’s a valve.
And they would say
to me, “That’s not a valve, Sir, that’s a pyaaa…” — you know? No. It’s a
valve. It was a
valve! I say, “What happens if this valve gets stuck?” So they say,
“Well, then it backs up
over here,” and they go through blueprints, up to the second floor, down
to the first
floor, and these two guys are going up and down, they’re talking,
talking, talking, very
fast to each other, I don’t know what’s going on, all mixed up — They
finally turn to me.
“You’re absolutely right, Sir,” they say. Absolute luck! I always have
luck like that. I’ve
always got crazy luck. “Absolutely right.” Zumwalt, this lieutenant
who’d taken me
around everywhere, as a kind of, you knew, security guard or something —
he just sat
there with his mouth hanging loose, you know. After we came out, he
said, “Feynman, I
know you. I’ve been to see you a lot. But that performance is physically
impossible! How
did you do that? It’s impossible!” I said, “I did it by luck.” Anyway,
that was part of this
thing. So I got involved in general safety problem for anywhere else. I
had ultimately to
go to the plant at Hanford about safety. Wheeler was there and I talked
to him about the
safety and checked his calculations on safety and so on, but there was
no particular thing.
I became a kind of a safety expert from Los Alamos on these other
plants, although it
wasn’t so much, especially at Hanford, that I was from the outside, but
to make sure, and
then leave. With a like Wheeler it was OK. And the men that I had taught
in Tennessee
were OK. So gradually there was less of this. Then, with regard to
certain safety
problems at our own Los Alamos place — because I became kind of an
expert on this
matter and would give advice — but I didn’t get involved, and didn’t
want to get
involved, with the safety of the experiments whose purpose it was to
make a reaction. It
was a different kind of safety. See, safety when the purpose is only to
handle materials is
a safe matter. Because my whole mental attitude was to be on the low
side, you know.
It’s a wholly different problem as to how to design experiments. So I
did not have
anything to do with the safety of the experiments whose purpose it was
to get near
critical, but only handling in the metallurgy division, handling in the
chemistry
department, what the trucks should look like, what the safes should look
like and the
shelves of boron in between the blocks and so on, so that the stuff
wouldn’t explode in
storing. That kind of stuff. I did do that. (I’m just telling you all
the different things.)
Weiner:
This is independent of your group, though?
Feynman:
Well, it was, temporarily — I had to go and do these things from time to
time, that’s
136
right. That I had a new problem. Shall I go on with this?
Weiner:
Sure.
Feynman:
We had at Los Alamos — gradually it became apparent, we did a lot of
calculating, and
we did this on Marchant Monroes and so on. Incidentally, I used to
repair those
machines; it’s an amusing story, but never mind. We repaired our own
machines — it
took too long to send them out and bring them back — so I was repairing
them all the
time. That was fun. Anyhow, it became clear that sooner or later we
would have to
compute how the implosion worked — that is, how the bomb, when it was
put together,
when it would explode afterwards, when it was exploding, how much energy
would
come out. This required analysis of the outgoing waves during the
explosion,
development of energy, outgoing waves, the speed at which they work. It
was too
complicated for analysis. It had to be done numerically. It was a
differential equation in
time, as the thing developed, and one variable — partial differentiation
— the radical
distance, and matter would be moving in this, as a function of density,
a function of
range. We assumed this for every explosion. It wasn’t the neutron
calculation, just the
explosion of the bomb. Question, then, of how fast it exploded
determines how much
energy’s coming out — it was important to make this. Then, this
calculation had to be
done over and over, with different kinds of design, theoretical design —
with heavier
materials outside, lighter materials, better reflectors, and so on. So
we realized that this
was coming up, and Stanley Frankel particularly saw a possibility, which
was that the
IBM Company had computing machines, business machines, which in those
days were
nothing but gear wheels electrically connected with switches that would
go off from the
cards. It’s not transistors, it’s not tubes — electromechanical, it was
called. Very slow
compared to nowadays. His idea was to get a whole bank, a whole set, of
these
machines, and to carry the cards from one to the other, and do what
would be for
business calculations, but instead to calculate the solution of this
differential equation.
That was a very important project that developed. I got involved in that
because of my
fooling with numerical calculations — questions of the stability of the
method of
calculation, how errors would propagate, the way the — whether the
particular plan that
they used to calculate was efficient and would operate… So I worked out
all this stuff
with Frankel. And the machines were on order, and they started to come.
In addition, in
order to test it — I always felt that a calculation should be first
tested before you send it
off to do — in order to test it, Metropolis and I set up a series of
girls to imitate the
adding machines. Each one would have a Marchant. It’s like mass
production. Instead of
the usual way, where a girl goes through a whole sequence of operations
on her
Marchant, we had like an assembly line, sitting around a big table, each
girl with a
Marchant. The card would be sent from one to the next. The girl would
cube the
number on the card and write down the answer and send it on. The next
girl would
137
subtract the cube from the previous cube and get the difference and
write it down and
send it on, and so on, and each of these operations would go around the
cycle. So we
would imitate exactly what one machine would do, you see, one step of
the machine —
so that we would be imitating the thing that ultimately the machines
would do, so that
ultimately when we got the machines and we started to put the cards in,
we’d have the
numbers that they ought to be giving. All bugs could be eliminated — you
know. We
found many interesting bugs, already, in the computation — things having
to do with
oscillations. Well, it’s an interesting subject, and we got this group
going. We got them
going pretty fast, at a certain rate, that they could do the
calculations. This is interesting
— this was the first kind of mass production calculation ever done in
this particular way,
so far as I know, where you would send the stuff around like it’s on an
assembly line.
But we did this to this to imitate machines, and we were ready. The
machines came, but
the repair man (that we were going to get from somewhere in the Army)
who knew the
machines hadn’t arrived. The crates were there. But he was supposed to
come in a week
or a few — you never know when it’s going to be, you know. So Stan
Frankel and I
opened the crates, and the machines were partly taken apart. We put the
machines
together, and we tested them. We wired them and we worked on them to
make them go.
By guess, by looking at the machines and the blueprints and everything,
we put them
together. We had some trouble. One of the multiplying machines didn’t
work quite right,
and I was trying to fix that one. Finally the repair man came and he
worked two days
trying to fix that multiplier. I said, “Oh, by the way, I noticed that
there was a thing that
seemed to me to be bent a little bit, but I was afraid to straighten it,
I might snap it off.”
Because, as a matter of fact, there had been some criticism: we
shouldn’t be allowed to
play with the machines, we would break them. So I was very careful –- “I
was afraid to
bend it, it might break off.” He says, “Where?” I say, “Back in there.”
“Oh,” he says. He
bends it straight, and it works like a charm. Yeah — well, he knew that
it wouldn’t break.
Anyway, we got the machines going, and they started to calculate the
problems. I was
not then involved with that program. However, after nine months —
Weiner:
— where does the nine months take you into? Sometime in 1943?
Feynman:
No, it’s 1944. You’ll see, because I add three months — maybe 5 months
to the 9
months — and we have the explosion in Alamogordo. Roughly. Anyway,
they’d been
working for 9 months, and had done three problems, you see. Bethe came
to me and
said, “I’d like to know —” Oh, in the meantime I’d gotten another job,
which is liaison
between theoretical physics and all the other experimental things, all
experimental
laboratories. I would go to all the laboratories, see what problems they
had, what things
they wanted calculated, bring back the need for calculation — or if we
had something
worked out, explain it to them at the other end. So I would go all over
Los Alamos. I
knew everything that was going on. I was the only guy besides
Oppenheimer who knew
138
what was going on in every division. Anyway, while I was doing that,
besides a little bit
of group leading of the group, and the safety work (but that was slowed
down a great
deal by this time; that was nearly finished, because they were working
on their own and I
merely had to check them a little bit) — Bethe asked me if I would be
leader of the
calculation group down there. They’d had a lot of trouble and they were
going very
slowly, they only did three problems in nine months. (This is a little
personal, because it
concerns certain people who didn’t do too well, but I’ll say it anyway,
Ok?) I said,
“What’s the difficulty? Why do you need me?” He said, “Well, you’re good
in numerical
calculations, and in the project they’re getting worried about it —?” So
I said, “What’s
the difficulty?” He said, “Personalities.” I said, “Ok. Well, if you go
down and find out
by asking that the people that are there working would be satisfied to
have me as a group
leader — I don’t want to get into a rat’s nest, and they don’t want the
new director either
—” So he went and checked, came back and told me “Yes.” So I took up the
direction
of the computing machines, the IBM machines that Mr. Frankel, who had
organized it in
the beginning and got the idea, began to play. “The machines are
fascinating!” He was
very clever. The machines are fascinating because you can think of a way
to use some
little pulse that comes from some switch somewhere to control what the
next card’s
going to do. Gradually, by knowing more and more what’s going on inside,
reconnecting
and fixing selector switches and everything else, it’s amazing what you
can get them to
do. In fact, the IBM Company didn’t realize the possibilities. They have
things called
selector switches, but Frankel knew that they were valuable, and had
many more ordered
for his machines that for other machines. I found out later, when I
tried to help the IBM
Company themselves do a problem for us, that they never knew — none of
the officials
knew — what this thing could do, what logical flexibility was available.
Anyway, he
discovered this, but in discovering it, got fascinated to the point that
he was playing. You
see. He was making the machines calculate the arctangent of X and make a
table and list
the numbers and do all kinds of things, because he could. He’d gotten
away from it. He
only worked — there were many problems — he only worked in the daytime,
while they
worked three shifts. There wasn’t any supervisor who knew what the
problem was about
at night. When the fellows at night would get into difficulties,
something would go
wrong, some little something, they’d try to fix it first, but then they
would fix something
wrong — like numbers are going over the range of the digits, like 9, a
front digit, it
would go to 0 and spill over. So then somebody may have enough
intelligence to move
the digits over, but he forgot to move them on the rear of the next
machine, you know.
Things like that. So every time they fixed anything by night, they
discovered by morning
that they’d just wasted their time. So it turned out then that what was
happening was,
every time at night something would do wrong, they would simply not do
anything. They
would just sit and drink coffee until morning, and so on. There wasn’t
any supervisor to
help them out. Stuff like this. He asked me if I would be the director,
and I took over
from Frankel. I would describe this, because you asked me. I never led
people because.
This is the first time I really led people. There were fifteen people
involved, three shifts
of guys, and I can describe details if you want to, about my first — and
only, as a matter
of fact — experience administratively. The first thing I thought was
this — that the men
whom they had there were SED5. This is Special Engineer Detachment,
selected from
139
different schools for being clever in scientific things, and inducted
into the Army. They
had them up there. They had to do some drilling, no matter what, and
then they would
work on this stuff. What they were doing, as far as I could see, was
punching holes in
cards. They were not told what the thing was about. They were not
supposed to be told.
It seemed to me that their talent was not being used, because they
didn’t know what they
were doing. So the first thing I did was so say — I was introduced by
Oppenheimer, by
the way, to the group. See, it was very important, this transfer, and
they hoped that the
morale would be improved and everything would go. It was an important
thing and they
tried to straighten it out. So Oppie introduced me and said, “Now, Mr.
Feynman will tell
you that he’s going to change.” I got up and said, “I’m changing
nothing. I want you to
do everything in the same sloppy way you were doing it before, and I’ll
just watch. Then
I’ll see what needs to be changed.” Because I didn’t know what to do. So
I went down
there, and first thing I wanted to change was that the guys should know
what they’re
doing, because I realized that they were intelligent but had no
information. So I went to
Oppie. I said, “In my opinion they ought to know what they’re doing.
Well, this was
against the principles that such and such a rank should know, but he
said, “Ok.” I went
to the Security officers. They said, “No,” but then through the
higher-ups, it was “Yes.”
So I brought them into the transformation in the morale of the whole
group was
fantastic. These guys had been inducted into the Army because they
clever. They were
drilling up in all day. Yeah? You know the kind of feeling you get,
“what’s this all
about?” Now they were fighting the war. I explained to them why we had
to make the
calculations fast — because we had to make these designs, and we were
going to have an
experiment at such and such a time, we had to design and so on and so
forth, you see.
They were very excited. I also got another idea. I took one of the
machines out of the
line, the line of calculators. I put one of them to one side: “Play
Only.” Not on hours,
but any time any guy wants to fiddle around with a machine, plug in
things, fiddle
around, he can, see? Then I did something else. Everything that I was
worrying about I
would write on a blackboard on a long list: “Problems I Am Trying to
Solve: 1) Is it
possible that in the interpolating operation so and so we could do the
two operations at
once? It seems to me then the machine…” And so on. You know? And I
redesigned the
computing cycle so that more was done on each machine, and certain
standardizations
were possible, from problem to problem, so that decimals changing
wouldn’t have to be
made so much, and a few other minor things, plus some major things. It
turned out — I
didn’t expect them to do it, but they invented, in playing. They would
solve some of the
problems I couldn’t solve, and invent schemes. These guys therefore,
many of them, had
in their machines their own inventions for special plug boards and so
on. Also, guys
came to me — two people came to me and they wanted to quit. You know,
they wanted
to quit, they were waiting. Someone said that she had been promised
before for several
months “that I could transfer to another job.” — some secretary, a WAC
or something.
She kept saying, “But they’re getting new men and he wants me to help
train ‘em — I
gotta go. I’m going.” I said, “Well, why are you going? Because I might
change
something. I want to know, only because I might change something that’s
bothering
you.” She said, “Because I can’t go overseas if I work on this, because
it’s secret stuff,
and I want to get transferred to something and then from there I can go
overseas. I want
140
to go overseas.” I said, “I can’t change that. Go.” She said, “What are
you going to do
when the new people come?” I said, “I don’t know, but the man’s been
promising you
for six weeks,” and so on. She said, “I’ll stay, till those people come,
and then I’ll go.” I
said, “Ok.” And so on. It turns out, you treat a guy right, they treat
you right, see. So I
treat everybody absolutely right. I saw the light wasn’t good. It’s
stupid, but I got better
lights in the room, you see. And so on. Then everybody changed. The
whole place was
changed. The excitement in the work was completely different. At first,
the first time,
when it was set up — see, I had to set up a whole new plug board system.
I changed the
method so I changed the plug board system to be more efficient, and I
worked 17 hours
at a stretch there — no, I guess it was 36 or something — I don’t know
how long it was,
nearly two days, or a day and a half, solid, at a stretch, and then
slept for 17 hours. When
I first took over I worked solid. Also I picked out myself to be the one
on the night shift.
I made sure there were supervisors on every shift, and I put myself on
that, at first, with
a little box, with sandwiches. At first I worked 36 hours; then slept
17. When I got back
in 17 hours it was in the same condition I’d left it when I went to
sleep. Because there
were bugs and troubles but they were working hard. Anyway, as time went
on it turned
out we no longer needed supervisors at night — very soon — because the
fellows knew
enough by this time. There were always enough good guys in the crew of
operators that
they always knew what the hell they were doing, and they wouldn’t get
mixed up like
that. Then, we had one very great improvement. We could do more than one
problem at
a time. The way it was, then were many machines in succession, so we’d
take a deck of
cards. It would have first the cubes, you know — take the cube of the
radius, subtract
the two radii, do something else, find the pressure and so on. We’d go
from one machine
to the next machine to the next machine. But because we had everything
standardized,
we could take another problem, which means different proportions of
matter and
density and pressures and speeds, and start another problem, because
after all it went
through the same machines. So we just used different color cards, and
followed the other
problem around, sometimes passing it if one deck was bigger than the
other. But you
could still go around in the same equipment. So we did approximately
three problems at
a time, which was an improvement, too. So it as more efficient and we
did several
problems at a time. One of the greatest efficiencies I can’t count, and
that is when
people would come to me with a new problem from somewhere, that we’ve
got to do
this case. I’d say, “You’ve really got to do this case? Look, we’ve got
a case of aluminum
here, and we’ve got a case of lead here and this somewhere in between.
How accurately
do you need the answer? Can’t we get the information from this or that?
It’s not an
importantly enough different case.” And they would agree, see. If they
didn’t agree, I’d
do it. But I would talk them into it. So I saved a lot of trouble by not
doing a lot of
problems, which is important too. Anyhow, to make a longer story rather
shorter, we did
nine problems in three months — compared to three in nine months — and
that was
pretty effective, pretty efficient. In addition, we had another thing.
Machines made
errors. Or people made errors — say they had to fix some balmy condition
on a shock
wave and they make a mistake. Or usually a machine. A digit would go
wrong.
Something would go wrong. The way the thing worked, if you made an error
on one
card, say the radius and the cube of the radius, had to subtract the
radii from two
141
adjacent cards for the next cycle, that error would appear on two cards,
because that
radius was used for the front and back of the subtraction — next time
three cards, then
four cards. In other words, errors would grow. An error on one card
would grow
through the stack of say 50 cards, gradually. Well, we invented a way to
correct errors
without slowing down the problem. We continued to do the problem with
the error in it,
and we’d discover an error, say, 5 cycles late, so it’s over 5 cards.
We’d take a little deck
of 15 cards, copy everything and get it right, the central cards right
too, and go around
with that deck doing the central part of the calculations, just fitting
the edges from the
old calculating. And we went around much faster with the small deck than
with the big
deck. So while the main problem was going around propagating this error,
we’re catching
up with it, with the little one, with the fixing, repairing the fault.
So as we’d go around
we’d repair the fault. We’re inventing a lot of things.
Weiner:
You would apply those results of the smaller deck.
Feynman:
Then when we caught up with the other one, would just take out all the
wrong numbers
and put the right ones in, and then go on with the 50 cards, see. Now,
let’s see, is there
anything else to tell about those days, managing that? I had no managing
troubles after
that. I didn’t need supervisors. Everybody was cooperating. It was very
easy after I got
things set up there. It was just fine. I think the secret was, just
natural — I’m not good at
administering, but I was just lucky — instinctively I knew what to do. I
have to show I’m
doing a lot of work myself. Second, everything that they want, I mean as
is honest, you
give them. I mean, there’s no way out. You can’t fight. Then, also,
consider how it looks
from their point of view. And it worked out pretty well. At any rate, we
were going as
fast as we could. We did about nine problems. The time was coming that
they were
going to make the shot at Alamogordo, and a very important question was:
what do we
think the energy is from that shot? So exactly the Alamogordo design has
to be
calculated. It was suggested we ought to. But it was brought in late. I
mean, they were
going very fast. Christy came around and said, “We have to do this
problem and it’s
gotta be ready by such a time.” I can’t remember now the time, but—I
don’t know, it
must have been, maybe we had to do it in two weeks or something crazy. I
said, “But no,
Christy, we can’t do that. It’s impossible. I cannot do it. It takes us
three months to do a
problem.” What do you mean it takes you three months? You’ve done nine
problems in
so and so —” I said, “Yeah, but we do them simultaneously, you see. We
have a lot of
production and we do it simultaneously. It takes a long time to put
through all the
machines in one deck. I can’t go any faster. We do so many problems
because —” So he
explained the problem and I said it was impossible, “We can’t get it in
time,” so he went
out. And I began to sit and think about it. Well, we don’t need the last
moments after the
explosion. We don’t have to carry it so far in time, because we get a
very good idea from
the other case. If we get that far — this kind of stuff, you know. And I
gradually realized
142
that it’s almost possible. Probably impossible but worth a try because
it’s important
enough. So I write on the blackboard — big thing, you know! “EMERGENCY!
All
other problems stop, because there’s no use having this other stuff
going around.” This
thing was a first priority, see. That’s the only way we could ever do
it. “All problems
stop. Need volunteers for a week for Sunday” — because we didn’t have to
work full
shift Sunday, or something. “Will pay you back by the other shift,” and
so on. Explained
what we had to do, why we had to do it, and outlined how I expected it
might be barely
possible, though probably impossible. These guys were very full of juice
by this time.
They all volunteered and they started working. And that was when I got
the call that my
wife was dying down in Albuquerque — just then, in the middle of all
that. And they’re
going as fast as they can. Just got it set up, and I had to leave. But
it shows how good
these SED guys (and everybody else) were — they kept the doggoned thing
going. When
I came back from Albuquerque and went in, I was upset. It looked to me
like they were
doing everything wrong. First of all, there were different colors. There
were four
different colored cards. Right away I said, “Hey, why are you doing more
than one
problem?” They said, “Please go out, and we’ll tell you when you come
back.” I said,
“All right,” because I trusted them. Well, it turned out, here’s what
happened. They
decided to do this problem. They were doing it as fast as they could.
You know,
everything was organized, everybody working on it, everything was
getting ready, the
pressure calculators were a little bit anticipating — you know
everything was as fast as
they could possibly go, going round the machines. And naturally, as
usual, they had an
error. So they got a deck of a different color, to follow the error
around. In that deck
they got an error. If that ever happened to us ordinarily, we got so
mixed up that we
would stop and get everything cleaned up and start over. But they don’t
want to stop. So
we made a still smaller deck. They had I think three or possibly four,
one inside the
other, errors, chasing each other around. And they had been doing this
during all the
time I was in Albuquerque. Every time there was an error, and error
within error, they
never stopped. They kept this thing going. They had practiced this
stuff. They had
sometimes two and three, and now this particular time they had three in
a row. But what
was their big worry was: confusion. You see, to keep track of which deck
goes inside of
what deck, and which one is the wrong one and which one is the right
one. And they
didn’t want to have to stop in the middle of this explain to me what the
hell they were
doing. They wanted me to get out. Then when it was unconfused, one of
the guys came
out and said, “I’ll tell you what we’ve been doing,” and then he
explained to me, this
terrible mess — I couldn’t follow, you know, because there were so many
wheels within
wheels. But they had kept themselves from getting confused, and had gone
around,
wheels within wheels. One of the machines had broken down, and they used
the “Play”
machine. It was very exciting. Here was a battle that wasn’t in the
Army. It’s a similar
kind of battle. It was a battle — they were trying to get something, to
find out about that
design. You see the problem — it was important to calculate, to compare
to how it
worked, to see if other calculations of design would make any sense. It
was vital to have
a calculation to see if it agreed, to understand.
143
Weiner:
Did you make it?
Feynman:
Yes, we made it. We made it very satisfactorily and well. Yes, it was
very exciting. They
were great guys. And as a matter of fact, I went down to their officers
and told them that
they’d done such good work that I thought they ought to have a leave, or
a pass for a
couple of days — you know, these fellows. The guy gets up in his chair
and he says:
“You cannot grant them a pass. Only I.”I said, “Sir, you’re absolutely
right. I’m
absolutely wrong. Of course, naturally, I had no intention of granting
them a pass. I just
wanted to report to you the excellent work that they were doing, and you
can decide
what you want to do about it. But I wanted to tell you, Sir, that your
men are very good.
It’s probably from your training.” I just turned it around. So he said,
“You know, I have
an idea. I’ll give them a pass.” Just crap — the world we live in!
Anyway, it was great.
That was a very exciting time for me. We did pretty well. Right after
that, then, the test
was getting ready, for Alamogordo, and there was a short period — my
wife had just
died — when I was granted a leave to go home. They told me I ought to
rest a little bit
from the exertions of the adding machines, or something, because I had
finished getting
the problem ready and so forth — or some reason. Probably they felt that
I just had this
trouble. So I went home for a short time. Incidentally, amusing enough,
my father, who
was home — he knew I was doing some secret work at Los Alamos, but not
what it was
— said to me, (he was in the uniform business), “You know, I have to go
down to the
Navy Yard in Virginia. I also went down to Oak Ridge. There are some
guards there.
They’ve got a secret project. They need uniforms, so we supply them with
uniforms.” He
says, “You know, the crazy rumors and crazy stories they tell about
what’s going on in
there!” I said, “Like what?” He said, “They say that that’s an atomic
energy plant.
They’re going to make some kind of a bomb that liberates atomic energy,”
he says to me,
“but it’s so stupid, because I know that atomic energy is the energy
that you get like in
gasoline when it burns in air, and so on, it’s the changing around of
the atoms, and the
energy of an atom is in chemical reactions, and they just don’t even
know what it
means!” Well, that’s right. “Atomic energy” is a misnomer. “Nuclear
energy” is the right
thing. And he concluded from his knowledge of science that the rumor as
absolutely
wrong, but it was a dead right rumor. I kept a straight face through all
this, of course. At
any rate, I got a telegram when I was home — something like “The baby is
expected on
such and such a day,” which was a prearranged signal from Hans Bethe. I
flew back to
Los Alamos and got a car from the airport and zipped up to the site and
there were the
busses getting ready to go to Alamogordo. Without even changing my
clothes, I jump on
a bus and out I go to Alamogordo. I was at the place 20 miles away from
the main thing,
on a mountainside. At any rate — can I describe what the bomb looked
like to me, or
you got enough descriptions of the bomb?
Weiner:
144
Oh, yes, that’s from your own personal reactions.
Feynman:
All right. Well, I was up at this site, and we were supposed to get
communication from
below as to when the thing was supposed to go off. They had a
theoretical hour, but we
were supposed to get some warning ahead, and we had a radio system that
was supposed
to let us know. Guys were fooling with the radio and they couldn’t get
contact with the
people down there, and so we couldn’t find out what was going on. I
began to play with
the radio at some point along the line, and suddenly I got contact.
Apparently they’d
forgotten us or something. Just before they began to tell us when it
would go off, and
that we had a certain amount of time left — and then someone came around
from a
safety office or something to distribute dark glasses. I think this is
nuts. Twenty miles
away, they’re going to worry about burning out your eye. I mean, that’s
crazy. They
worry about ultraviolet light, from 20 miles — you know. I didn’t think
it would go. I
mean, I was always a pessimist. I never believed in the theoretical — I
thought it would
be relatively small, most likely. Something would go wrong. Always a
pessimist about our
knowledge of the world. But I did have the common sense, as for the
ultraviolet light —
I got in the cab of a truck, so I would look through glass, but I didn’t
think I had to look
through dark glass. Maybe I wouldn’t see anything.
Weiner:
You’d miss it, you mean.
Feynman:
Yeah. Right. Anyway, we got the signal and the timing and everything —
the radio — we
finally made contact, just in time, and found out how many seconds, and
the count was
going backwards — the usual business. And then I saw a terrific bright
flash, out on the
desert. It was so bright that my instinct was to turn my head — you
know, suddenly. I
look and I see a big bright purple thing. That’s the bomb? Can’t be,
it’s on the floor of
the truck. It was the after-image, you see. So then I looked quickly
back, and I saw things
that others didn’t see, because I was looking with my eyes and they had
to look through
the glasses. I saw the light. It was white, turning yellow, turning
orange, but during the
first stages, I saw clouds form and disappear, waves. I could see the
wave of motion of
the cloud formations and other things. It was very interesting. Then the
light began to
peter out gradually, got more orange and so on — and it was a ball, and
it was lifted up
off the ground. It was a round ball. Then it began to flicker like an
oil fire, with black.
This was quite a bit later. Black and more and more flickering. Then I
saw a purple halo.
Most of the light went out, and there was the purple halo around it. I
figured, there’s
another after-image, but when I looked up to one side it didn’t come
with me, and I
realized that it was the radioactivity in the cloud or something, making
the halo. It was
145
very impressive. It was by this time dark but still visible. And it was
quite a long time, (I
guess we can figure out now — a minute and a half, or a minute forty
seconds,
something like that) — when all of a sudden there was a crack, a loud
crack like a rifle
going off nearby, and the thunder — brmmm, brmmm — because all the rest
as in
silence. I’ve always been impressed by acoustics. Acoustics have meaning
for me. Not so
much as the visual. When I heard the solidity of that crack, at 20 miles
away, then I knew
that that thing was something, and I got excited. Everybody began to
talk then.
Everybody was silent during the entire period while the sound went the
20 miles — what
would it be, a minute and a half? One incident was amusing. When the
crack came —
because everybody was so intensely watching this thing — when the crack
came, I was
standing next to William Lawrence of the NEW YORK TIMES, and when the
crack
came he says to me, “What was that?!” I said, “That was the bomb down
there.”
Weiner:
Have you read Lawrence’s account of that? It’s a classic account of that
very moment.
Feynman:
I guess so — no, I haven’t read it. He was standing there. Anyway, that
was the moment.
Then we all got excited, and there were a lot of parties back at the
place and all kinds of
excitement, a wild and wonderful business altogether. No — there weren’t
parties at that
point, because it was still secret. Excuse me; I’ve got it mixed up with
the time of the
announcement when the war was over.
Weiner:
What did happen at that point?
Feynman:
Well, we knew it was good, and we were all very excited. We went back to
Los Alamos.
But we’re not going to dance around and let everybody know. This
Lawrence reminds
me of something. At first they thought that there would have to be,
sooner or later, an
official Army description of what was going on at Los Alamos, the bomb,
the work, the
whole thing, somewhere, so that somebody, newspapers or what, would have
some place
to read about it — or maybe for historical purposes or something. So
they got Bill
Lawrence of the NEW YORK TIMES, (he was no longer on the TIMES, was
hired off
the TIMES) to come to write all about Los Alamos. And I was given the
job of taking
him around Los Alamos when he arrived, to show him everything, because I
knew all
this stuff, because I had this liaison job before and I knew what went
on everywhere. I
saw him around. But somewhere, somebody was not satisfied with the way
he was
writing things. I don’t know why. Perhaps it wasn’t technical enough or
something. So
then H. D. Smythe was the one, and I showed him around the whole thing,
the place,
146
next, same way. So I wrote part of the theoretical section for him,
explained it and wrote
it and so on — very good — I knew him very well. But one story I must
tell, because it’s
so amusing. At one stage — you see, we’d gotten finally some plutonium
from Hanford,
and were making some measurements on it, and had a little ball of the
stuff on the end
of a silver tube in a room, separated from the walls, just all by
itself, so that the reflection
of neutrons and this and that wouldn’t make any difference. They were
measuring
something. It was a silver-plated ball in the middle of the room — a
very kind of semi-
dramatic looking thing. It was a relatively small room, but there was
this small ball, oh,
like a tennis ball. The door was open on the room, and I showed it to
Smythe, and said,
“Here we are making experiments with the plutonium we’ve just gotten.
We’re
bombarding it with neutrons and seeing how many are reflected, measuring
all the
necessary numbers.” He’s kicking the doorstop, you know, while we’re
talking. You
know how people nervously do. And he begins to talk about how here the
world has
never seen this metal before, we have at last achieved transmutation of
the elements, and
here stands this ball of metal, and so forth and so on. Dramatic. He
understood the
moment and he described to me the moment — of the human beings, here we
are,
standing in front of this accumulation of stuff, of a new material that
had never — that
had died 20,000 years after it was created, hadn’t existed on the earth
for billions of
years, transmutation of the elements and so on. I said, “Yes, and I
think you would find
it appropriate that the doorstop for this room, that you’re kicking” —
which as half a
sphere, about 18 inches in diameter -– “is made of solid gold.” He
looked at it. It looked
like a brass thing. “It is?” I said, “Yeah.” You see, some of the
question was to reflect the
neutrons back from the uranium. We would save neutrons that way and
therefore
material. The plutonium was infinitely valuable compared to anything
else. So the best
reflector we could get, from the neutron standpoint, was the question.
Never mind the
money. So many experiments were done, reflecting from different
materials. We had to
get samples of different materials to do the neutron reflection
experiments. One of the
materials we needed was gold and another was platinum. At first they
thought we would
march these things around with big guards all over the place. And then
it was decided by
somebody, rather intelligently, that since this was a secret project
anyway, the best way to
do it would be to not make anything out of it, to call it brass, and to
call the platinum
zinc, for anybody who happened to overhear. All the scientists who were
making the
measurements knew what the hell it is. So we had this half a ball of
gold which had been
used for neutron reflection measurements and it had been treated like
brass all along the
line. It was used as a doorstop and so forth, while it was not being
used. You know, it
was stored as doorstop. But somebody had the amusing idea to use it as a
doorstop for
this room that had the plutonium. I thought it was very good.
Incidentally, the platinum
disc was amusing, because it was “zinc.” I remember being called down to
one of the
labs -– “Listen; we got a disc of zinc for measurements. Would you like
to look at it?” I
look at it. “Would you hold it for minute, please?” I look at it. “Would
you hold it for a
minute, please?” — you know they hand it to you. Uhnnn! The density of
it is so much
greater than you’d expect. You’re not used to handling so much dense
metal. It was very
impressive. Very hard to hold up, though a rather reasonable-sized
object. Anyway the
“zinc” just sat on a table — I don’t know how much, about 3/4 of an inch
wide, perhaps
147
12, 14 inches in diameter, a circle — that’s a lot of platinum, just
sitting around on a
table like any piece brass. Lesson in relative valves, yeah. I want to
talk about the
censorship they had at Los Alamos. At some stage along the way, people
began to notice
that some of their letters were being opened and closed. They reported
it to the Security
Office. Actually it was the Security Office which presumably was doing
it. Anyway, after
much effort they decided — censorship, which is illegal inside the
country. It had to be
voluntary, which meant that the letters that we mailed out, we would
mail unsealed, and
they would seal the letters. They didn’t want to mark the letters
“Censored” because they
didn’t want the people who received the letters to think the place was
so important. The
letters that we would receive would be opened by the censor, then given
to us. There
was something a little bit funny about it, and there were a lot of these
idealistic scientists,
liberal-minded or whatever you want to call it, so there was quite a
tussle about it.
Everybody was handling everything with kid gloves. But they did arrange
to have
censorship, and they said it wouldn’t bother us in any way, and there
would be no
troubles and everything would be all right. No effect on our incoming
mail. Incoming
mail would come right through, only they would look at it, and outgoing
mail they would
simply seal up, if everything was all right. They had a lot of rules
about what you couldn’t
say and could say. With much trouble they arranged this thing. In fact,
in the description
ahead of time it said that the “mail would be censored by a man whom you
do not know
and who is not known by you,” which everybody read like it sounds, and
somebody
noticed meant the same thing just repeated. They were very wise and
clever people, you
see. But somebody noticed that little trick. They’re a funny group.
Anyhow, the
censorship started. Now, I really bore the brunt of the censorship,
because my wife was
in Albuquerque and I wrote to her every day — I don’t know that it was
every day, at
least a few times a week. So there was a lot of mail back and forth. In
the beginning,
when the censorship started, we could notify a few people if we wanted
to that there was
censorship, because that was a legal thing, by one note, but that’s all.
So I told my father
and my wife about it. The censorship began, and immediately I was called
into the office.
What was the trouble? They said, “What’s this?” I said, “It comes from
my father.” It
was a sheet of paper with dots above and below the lines all over the
paper. They said,
“What is this?” I said, “Oh, I see, it’s a code.” “What’s the key to the
code?” “I don’t
know the key to the code.” “What do you mean, you never saw it?” Well,
it was just that
I was amusing myself by trying to crack a code that my father would
invent, see. And the
same thing — a letter from my wife they showed me with five letters
things, “wfkgvix,”
and so on, which was another code, which she sent me, for which I didn’t
know the key,
see. They said, “You can’t do this.” I said, “But you announced that the
censorship
would in no way affect the incoming mail.” They said, “Well, at least
will you have them
send the key along with the code?” I said, “No, because then I don’t
have any puzzle.”
They said, “All right. You send the key, and we will look at it. They
send the code with
the keys, we’ll take the key out.” I said, “Ok.” So I started out, in
other words, in trouble
with the censor, and from then on they always thought I was some kind of
wise guy
looking for trouble. The first letter that my wife sent me had a mark
taken out,
something taken out by ink eradicator. I went to the censor, and I said,
“Somebody’s
been doing something to the mail. You said you weren’t going to touch
the incoming
148
mail.” This was at the very beginning. They said, “Listen, the censor
wouldn’t use ink
eradicator. He’d cut it out with a scissor.” I said, “Oh.” So I wrote to
my wife and said,
“Did you use any ink eradicator in your letter?” And her letter came
back, “No, I don’t
have any ink eradicator. It must have been the —” and there was a hole
cut out by a
scissor. So I brought it with the hole cut out and said: “I think this
was your censor.”
“No! It was your wife!” “Listen, she doesn’t know anything about
conversation we had
before. I haven’t visited her since. This is the censor!” Anyway, the
next time my wife
wrote a letter, it came as a kind of confetti. Because she was saying
things like, “I used to
like to write to you, and I know that the censor doesn’t make any
difference, but to think
of the censor reading the letters between the two of us bothers me, and
I always think of
the censor, and so on.” Every remark about this was all cut, and so it
was confetti. I
went into the office. (This took some time, you see; I was always going
into the office.)
Finally the officer said, “I told you we were going to stop this,” and
so on. I said, “But it
isn’t stopped.” He said, “Don’t you have faith in me?” I said, “I have
faith in you, but I
don’t think you’re the man in charge.” This got him very angry and he
got on the
telephone immediately, as I was going out of the office, with somebody.
And that was
the last time that they bothered any of my incoming mail. They would put
notes in it to
me, but they would do, you see. But they’d begun chewing on it, which is
not right. At
any rate — they must have censors trained the regular way, and they just
started to
proceed the regular way, but then — do it. We had a number of small
amusing
difficulties. Because they were worried about me with codes, a number of
troubles. I got
up — one day I went to see my wife and she said, “Where’s all the
stuff?” “What stuff?”
I got a letter from the censor. It said that this letter had a code in
it without the key, so
they took it out. It was not according to our arrangement. So I went to
my wife and she
said, “Where’s all the stuff?” “What stuff?” “I sent you a list.” “What
did it say on it?”
“It said litharge, glycerin, hot dogs, laundry —” I said, “Ok. That’s a
code.” She wanted
litharge and glycerin to repair something and so on. It looked like a
set of code words.
So I always had a certain trouble. No matter what I would write, zoom,
it would come
back to me. See, I’d put it in the mail and it would come back,
“violation of something.”
Once I was playing around with the adding machine. Fooling around, I
noticed that 1
divided by 273 is .004115226337448 and so on. Then it gets near the end,
when the 9s
start carrying into 10s, with carriers and so on it rearranges itself
and comes out 004115
and so on. So I wrote them a letter — I told my wife this in a letter,
put it in the mail, it
comes back, “violation of paragraph 17B.” I read l7B. “Letters have to
be written only in
English, Russian, Spanish, French” — lots of languages. “Permission to
use any other
language must be obtained in writing from the censor. No codes.” I can’t
figure out,
where is the violation of paragraph 17B? So I look at it, and I can’t
see the code. I
certainly can’t be a code, because if you in fact divide 1 by 273 you
will in fact obtain the
number, so there’s no more information than in the number 273, and so
on. So it’s not a
code. “I therefore apply for permission to use Arabic numbers in my
letters,” and so on.
We had this kind of stuff going back and forth all the time. At any
rate, after they
stopped cutting the letters up, my wife would still mention the censor
from time to time
and there would be a note in it, “This letter violates paragraph
something,” so I look at it
and it says, “Don’t mention the censorship.” But the letter was coming
in to me. It’s
149
none of my business, you see. So this happened for a while until finally
I got a note that
says, “Please notify your wife not to mention censorship in her
letters.” So I wrote a
letter: “I’ve been instructed to inform you not to mention censorship in
your letters.”
Zip, zip — don’t mention censorship. Yeah. So I figure, Ok. I wrote back
to them and
said: “You told me not to mention censorship, and to instruct my wife
not to, but how
am I going to do it unless I go down and tell her? And it’s very bad
practice for me to go
out to tell things that I can’t pass through the censor” — you know?
“Furthermore I
would like some information to explain to me why I am instructed by the
censor not to
tell my wife to tell me that there’s a censor.” Well, they wrote back,
“Don’t be a wise
guy. It’s very simple. In case the letter is intercepted on the way from
Albuquerque up
here, we don’t want people to know what’s going on.” So they caught me
on that one.
They had a good logical reason. So I went down and told her not to
mention it anymore.
At any rate, my wife and I — she had done a number of other things. You
see, she
would do whatever she would have done ordinarily, like send up those
letters and so on,
and she had ordered, before the censorship, jigsaw puzzle blanks; for
the fun of it she
was going to fool me by writing a letter as a jigsaw. Well, she decided
to do it anyway,
even if there was a censor. So one day we had trouble. I got the letter,
all the pieces, to
put together to read the letter, and a note from the censor, “Please
instruct your wife to
restrict herself to ordinary letters. We are not in business to play
games.” But she did that
not purposely to annoy the censor. Only then we began to get the idea
that we should do
things to purposely annoy the censor, because they were beginning to
annoy us. I mean,
I had to work so hard to get them not to cut the things out and do all
these things. So we
had a whole sequence of items set, of which the next one — which we
never quite did
— I remember the next one, but we didn’t do it, because things quieted
down. The letter
would come to me in an envelope full of powder in it, and it would start
out, “I hope
you remembered to open this letter carefully, as I have included the
Pepto-Bismol for
your stomach as prearranged.” You can imagine the guy pulling the thing
out, stuff going
all over the floor, having to collect it, put an apology in, you know.
It was that kind of
thing we were playing. Some of the things like that we did, to the
censorship. But as a
result of this experience, I knew exactly what could and could not be
sent through the
censor, because I was the one that got almost all of the trouble, you
see. And people
would come to me as an authority — “Can this pass?” “Will that pass?”
And I’d know.
As a matter of fact, later, I made bets. For example, at one time one of
the boys of my
group was hauled out in the middle of the night when he was sleeping,
put in a room
with lights and smoke and guys asking him questions — I can’t remember
what,
something having to do with how his father or how he voted — I can’t
remember the
details. They were discussing it at the table, and they said, “You know,
the trouble is,
we’ve got censorship. There’s no way that we can send it out.” I said,
“Sure we can send
it out. I’ll send it to my wife.” You see, there was one weak spot.
Because of the
sensitivity of people, they had written specifically: “No criticism of
the administration
will be censored.” So I simply wrote: “You should see how they
administer this place.
Only the other night” — ta ta tata, I described the whole thing, and won
five bucks. It
went through. Yeah. It described the whole thing, in detail, but I said
it as a criticism of
the way things were being run. Then, on another occasion, I had
discovered some holes
150
in the fence — big ones. See, they had an inside fence for the technical
area, which was
very carefully kept. They had an outside fence, for the whole region of
Los Alamos. And
they had people living out there who were construction workers who would
come
through. These guys wanted a short-cut. They cut holes. I mean, the
outside fence was
dealt with very carelessly. I used to like to take walks. One day I went
out and I saw this
thing. I was always trying to correct them, you know, not just to fool
around. But instead
of correcting it by reporting it in a simple manner which I knew would
make no
difference, I always made it more or less dramatic. So this particular
time, I go out, I find
this hole. I came in. You see. Then I went around and I went out again,
through the
same gate. Found the hole. Came in. Went out again. The sergeant at the
gate took my
mark down -– “so and so, badge no. so and so” — every time I went out.
He’s amazed.
Number so and so — he looks — same badge — went out, went out, and went
out,
three times. So he says, “What’s the idea going out through here?” I
say, “Am I not
allowed to go out?” you see, and so on, went out, and came back for the
fourth time. He
got very upset. He puts me in the guard place there and he calls up the
captain, “So and
so —” I simply said to the captain, “I’m trying to demonstrate for you
the absurdity of
your position here. This man is standing here, preventing people from
coming in, when
only 150 yards over there, there’s a hole big enough for a man to walk
through standing
up.” I also found another hole on the other side big enough for a truck
to go through.
There was some trucking and so, short out, you know that nobody knew. I
was
describing this to somebody. They said, “Bet you can’t get that through
the censor.” I
said, “I’ll describe every hole in the fence, where you can go to get
through the fence,
and there’ll be no trouble” — same trick, you see. I again described the
difficulty, the
way they administered, and the lack of safety, and I described, 152 1/2
yards to the right
of gate so and so (I exaggerated the precision) there’s a hole, and
described the hole —
and there’s another hole in another place — exactly where everything was
and how to
get to it. You can imagine them worrying: “We can’t send this through
the mail?” On the
other hand, what can they say? They can’t say to a guy, “Listen, you
can’t tell us where
our holes are.” There’s only one thing for them to do, damn it — send it
through the
mail and fix the holes. So, although it sounded like I was kidding all
the time, I did have
a serious purpose. I did think the holes ought to be fixed. I didn’t
believe in this way of
having to stop at gates and going through all this nonsense if it didn’t
mean a damn
thing. It was silly. So I was always annoying, for a purpose, you see. I
enjoyed myself,
because I was in the right, so to speak, but I would always have a
little bit of a purpose
behind it. Not quite the same. So that’s some of the stories of the
censorship.
Weiner:
I remember reading one, about a note in a safe —
Feynman:
That’s different, that’s about safes. That’s not the censorship. Do you
want to know
about safes?
151
Weiner:
How do you feel?
Feynman:
Yeah, sure. You got tape? This stuff is relatively easy. When I was in
Princeton, I learned
how to pick locks from a guy named Leo Lavatelli. It’s relatively easy,
with a paper clip.
Weiner:
Was he a student?
Feynman:
Yeah, graduate student. Pick Yale locks. I was surprised they were so
easy. It was a
surprise to me. And so I learned the thing. Because it meant that locks
are not safe,
ordinary Yale locks are not very safe. Now, in the beginning of Los
Alamos we got very
serious secret information that everybody appreciated. But because of
some
circumstance of supply, they had to be kept in ordinary wooden filing
cabinets, which
were locked often by makeshift devices like long sticks that would go
through all the
handles with a padlock on top, which is a Yale key kind of padlock. I
thought that this
was wrong, that it was not fully appreciated how poor was the security.
I knew, from
picking locks that these things were in no way safe. It takes a few
minutes to open. And
so I was perpetually annoying the system, to hurry up and get some real
things to put
this material into — that these filing cabinets were no good. That was
the real purpose
of the business of locks, and why I was doing various tricks all the
time — various
things, like to borrow a report by pulling it out of some guy’s safe —
to show, again and
again, that the stuff was no good, by demonstration, not by talking. As
it turned out, it
was much worse than I describe. It was not necessary even to open the
locks. Ordinarily
you just tilt the whole filing cabinet over, say. The filing cabinet
drawers have slots along
the bottom to move some kind of a thing to hold the papers. And you can
just put your
hand in and twist the papers and pull them out, and so on. It was very
easy. It was lousy,
it was no good, and we had to do something about it. So I kept harping
on this, and
demonstrating these things to people all the time by one or another
trick and so I got a
kind of reputation for being annoying, but I had a purpose, because I
don’t think it was
worth keeping our secrets that way. Just for amusement, I’ll tell a
story. At one of the
meetings where this was being discussed, big meeting, I got up and I
again said that
everything was unsafe, we have to get some kind of better locked filing
cabinets, it’s not
right — and I demonstrated something. I pulled out, I don’t know. And
Mr. Teller,
Edward Teller, got up, and he said, “Well, how is my drawer in my desk?
I keep the
really important secrets in the drawer in my desk.” I said, “I don’t
know about the
drawer in your desk, but I’ll look at it. I’ll look at it after the
meeting.” So just before the
152
meeting was over, a little before the meeting was over — I was sitting
in the back and he
was in the front—I snuck out, ran down to his office, looked at the
drawer in his desk. It
was very simple. I didn’t even have to open the drawer, which would have
been easy. But
there’s a little space, half an inch, above the back of the drawer,
where the wood slides
in, so you can put your finger around, you see. I mean, the drawer
doesn’t fit perfectly.
You crawl under the desk, put your hand up — I felt a piece of paper,
and pulled it out.
And like those automatic toilet paper dispensers, you pull one sheet and
it pulls another,
so you keep pulling. I emptied the whole drawer. And I put the stuff in
my locked
cabinet somewhere. That drawer was then emptied. I ran back to another
floor to the
meeting, which was about that time just coming out, and joined the
stream of people
walking along, behind Teller. Then I ran up to where Teller was and
said, “Oh, by the
way, let me look at that drawer of yours.” So we walked over to his
office, and went into
his office. He says, “This is the drawer.” “Oh,” I say, “that looks very
good; I don’t think
anybody could ever break into that. Let’s see what you got in it.” He
said, “I’ll show
you.” and he opens the drawer up, and he turns to me: “You see, I have
nothing in it. I
have nothing in it, since you’re keeping it for me.” The trouble with
fooling a man as
intelligent as Edward Teller is that the speed in which he could figure
out is so great that
there isn’t a moment, there isn’t time for the face to show any
surprise. He just pulled it
out and said, “You see there’s nothing in it, since you have it” — just
as fast as he
noticed there was nothing in it, he understood why. So he was no fun,
darn it! One step
ahead of me. Yeah. But anyway, what ultimately happened is, we got
filing cabinets made
by the Mossier Safe Co. with a combination lock on the top drawer. And
this
combination lock was one where you twist the wheels. To open it, when
you get the
right combination, you have to turn back to the number 10, and then it
pulls the bolt
down and you can pull it open. This was a challenge, one of those
challenges. For two
years I piddled with that. I tried to figure a way to open them. I
worked on it and I
studied it. I thought of all kinds of things — spinning the wheels and
stopping them
suddenly — all kinds of things. I also had read some books on opening
safes, but the
usual baloney, you turn a handle and you listen for something. That’s
only because, the
old safes, you turn a handle and it would try the bolt against the
wheels, and nothing is
built perfectly, so when you turn the wheels, a hole, the slot, would
come from one of
the discs in the right position, the bolt would start to go down even
though it was held
up by the other discs, and there’d be a little click, and a little feel
of ease in motion of
turning the wheel. But with this new device, there was no way to test
the bolt against the
wheels while you were turning the wheels, because you had to go back to
No. 10. It was
a good design. So I tried all kinds of things. Somewhere along the line,
I discovered a
way to testing all the combinations in a very efficient manner if the
drawer was open —
or rather, the other way, excuse me. I found a way of testing all the
combinations in an
extremely efficient manner by setting up the two first wheels and then
just changing one
number at a time, so that it would take me about eight hours to work the
safe. But
before that I found a way to get the number off the safe when the drawer
was open.
When the drawer was open, and the thing was at 10, the bolt was in the
holes, and all the
discs were lined up correctly. If you turned the wheel away and started
to move the first
disc, if you went to a number that still hadn’t engaged the first disc
and came back, the
153
bolt would still go back. But if you went far enough to just involve the
first disc, which
was the last number of the combination, the bolt would go back again.
Then you could
turn that other disc back because you knew the number, and so on.
Anyway, I figured
out a way of picking the last two numbers off of a safe combination when
the drawer
was open. Many people had their drawers open all the time, as they’re
working, and I
would practice this. See, at first it was slow and cumbersome, I had to
think, but it’s a
question of practice. I practiced just for fun. I liked the challenge.
It was only a hobby. I
practiced and practiced, and everywhere I went I would take combinations
off the safes,
the last two numbers — more and more nonchalantly. Like I’d go into
Christy’s office
and we’d be discussing something. I’d lean against the safe and diddle
the knob,
nervously, like I’m doing with this little thing, I’m jiggling it in my
hands, you see, just
like that. Nobody ever noticed I was doing anything. I’d pick the last
two numbers off.
I’d go home and write them down. I kept a list in my safe, in fact in
the works; I kept a
list of all combinations that I’d picked off this way, all over the
place. Then I claimed to
be able to open safes, and I got a reputation for it. It was necessary
from time to time.
Somebody was out of town, or something was the matter, we needed a
document, we
didn’t have the guy who knew the combination. So I got a reputation of
being able to do
this. They would say, “Can you open so and so’s safe?” I’d say, “Yeah, I
gotta get my
tools.” Not only would I get my tools, but I’d get the last two numbers
of the
combination. It took me a minute or two to try the first. The first
number was only one.
I knew that I only had to get within five to get the right answer. I’d
figured that out.
Every fifth number — I had to get within two, so every fifth number is
all I had to try
— so with 20 numbers it was easy, because I knew the last two. I’d go in
and I’d close
the door. I’d sit around for a while, make it more difficult looking.
Then I’d open it up.
I’d open the door and let people in. I’d never let anybody know how I
did it, because
after all I don’t want this kind of secret stuff to get around, and so
on. I had fun doing
that, opening safes.
Weiner:
They eventually changed that? You demonstrated again?
Feynman:
No, they didn’t. They didn’t. I just claimed to be able to open the
safe. Oh, I couldn’t tell
them to re-manufacture the safes. There were no other safes that were
any good. I have
since found, right after the war, the Mossier Co. put out another safe
which I have not
had a chance to study, but for which this method would not work. So they
knew about
it. They found out — not what I did, but that there was this weakness in
their machine.
At any rate, I also developed a way to try all the combination numbers
in a certain order
so as to be as efficient as possible, and estimated I could work the
whole thing out in
eight hours, guaranteed, tried everything — or in four hours average,
because after all,
sometimes, you have a 50 percent chance of getting the number. I tested
it by having
somebody give me his first number, which saved me a lot of time, and
then did the
154
whole thing in a half an hour. It was very amusing. I had very good
luck. I have a friend,
Phil Staley, who also had been trying to understand these locks with me,
and I was kind
of telling him of my progress. When I got this method of testing all the
combinations I
said, “Listen, I’ve got a way of testing all the combinations in so and
so much time, and I
want to show you how to do it.” So we went into the office of the
computing
department, which was the nearest room, and I said, “Here, let me show
you how I open
them.” Somebody overheard me and laughingly said, “Feynman’s going to
show Staley
how he opens safes, hah hah hah hah!” So everybody collected around. I
knew I wasn’t
going to open the darned thing. And this is one of the craziest
phenomena. My back was
turned to the people and the doorway, and I explained to them, “Well,
you take some
number at random — suppose you’re in the middle of it, your testing is
25, 15, 30; then
you try 40, 50, 60, so — now, that didn’t work, then you want to change
that 10 to 15,
you turn that this way, 15, now you try 10, 20 —” I was explaining it to
them. It was
only in the matter of time practically that I’m talking, just a little
more, and I hear a
“click.” By sheer luck the few numbers I’d tried contained the
combination. It was
incredible. I hear a click and I open the drawer. Staley quickly looks
at me with surprise,
and sees that my face shows more surprise that his. So he was smooth
about it. “Oh,” he
says, “I see how to do it, Feynman.” I say, “Quite effect, quite
effective.” I’d recovered
by that time, slammed the drawer shut and spun it. “You see, we have it
worked out,”
and we went out, left this group with their tongues hanging out. But it
was sheer luck.
Sheer luck. Now, I got a remarkable reputation for these things. The
most remarkable of
all was, once I was visiting Oak Ridge, and it was a Sunday. It was over
a weekend, and it
was very important that I ok some kind of plans or something. They had a
special
meeting on Sunday, and they had to get these secret documents out of the
safe of the
man in this office, and only his secretary knew the combination, he
suddenly discovered.
He had all these guys meeting — me from Los Alamos, a general or two,
all this junk —
and it was very important. And he’s stuck, this damn fool. He doesn’t
know the
combination of his own safe and he can’t get the papers out. So he
starts calling up his
secretary at home, making telephone calls. And they say, “Well, she
isn’t here, but she’s
probably visiting aunt so and so.” They call aunt so and so — and this
just keeps going
on. So I say, “Do you mind if I try to open the safe while we’re
waiting?” Everybody
laughed, you see, at the impossibility of opening such a thing, and they
said, “No.” So
he’s calling to find out she’s on a picnic somewhere. They went on a
picnic. Nobody
knows where they are. So he’s getting more and more embarrassed, and I’m
fiddling with
the safe — and I open it! I never told them how I opened it, because it
was so incredible,
they would never conceive of this possibility. You see, to open a safe
cold when you
don’t know the combination — those safes were good, it was hard — at
best it would
take four hours, average time, cold. But what happened is that about
three or four weeks
or maybe a month and a half or something like that ago, I had been in
that office,
before. And I was perpetually testing my methods of taking the numbers
off. I had taken
the last two numbers off of that safe, just for practice. I didn’t write
them down or
anything because I never expected to use them. I was only fiddling with
the safe, my
perpetual diddling, like a card sharp who has a deck that he’s always
practicing his
dexterity with. I was always practicing my dexterity. I vaguely
remembered the numbers,
155
vaguely, but I had them in the wrong order. First I tried one way. Then
I tried the other
way, see. It was a 45 10 or a 15 40 or something. But I had enough
remembrance that I
did get it. This I never told them. So therefore they imagined that I
could open cold a
safe in such a short time. But to imagine that this man had previously
gotten the
numbers off of this combination was beyond their imagination. Another
thing that
happened Oak Ridge was very amusing. On another occasion, it was very
late. It was the
last minute on Saturday and everybody had gone home but a certain
colonel or
somebody important in the Army who had to check my report. I don’t
remember who it
was. So he was reading my report to see if it was all right before I
left that evening.
Everybody was away. You see, the secretaries had just about gone home
and everything.
Now, he had in his office a great big two door safe with those big
prongs that you turn
when you turn the handles and all this stuff, I’d never had any
opportunity to fiddle with
safes, I just did the filing cabinets, you see, and this was a big safe,
so I was very anxious.
I said, “Look, while you’re reading that, do you mind if I look at your
safe?” “Not at all,”
he says. So I look and I see this strange thing — that the mechanism —
the wheels, the
combination of the machine — is exactly like in the filing cabinet. The
bolt that it pulls
back is just like in the filing cabinet, but when it pulls that bolt
back, then you can turn
the handles, that’s all. So to make sure it’s exactly the same, I take
the last two numbers
off, standard machine, quick dexterity, you know. And he finishes the
report. Then —
very military — he takes his report, puts in it in the safe, and says,
“It’s all right,” swings
the two doors closed and jams the doors closed with the big handles
feeling very good. I
can’t resist. I say, “You know, you military guys give me a laugh.” He
says, “What do you
mean?” very angry. I say, “I can tell by the way you close those doors
that you think that
thing is safe. And the only reason you think it’s safe is because
civilians call it a safe.”
That didn’t worry me, the illogic of it. So he got upset and said, “What
do you mean?”
“Well, a good safe cracker could open that thing in 30 minutes,
guaranteed.” He says,
“Oh, yeah? Well, could you open it in 30 minutes?” “Oh, no, I —” “Let me
see you
open it.” “No, I’m not a good safe cracker. It would take me 45 to an
hour.” He says,
“That’s incredible, that you could open that in 45. I don’t believe it.”
You know?
“You’re such a braggart, I’m going to sit right here —” He called up his
wife and told
her he’d be late for supper. “I’m going to sit right here and you’re
going to work on that
thing for an hour!” So he sat down and read a magazine, got a magazine
and put his feet
up on the desk. I took a chair, put it over by the safe — I took it
slowly, I wanted to
have a nice comfortable place to do my work. Then I started to just
diddle at random,
because I wasn’t going to open it right away. You can’t spoil a joke by
having it go in a
minute and a half, you know. So I just piddled around, piddled around
for about five
minutes, which is quite a time, actually. He turns to me -– “Well,
making any progress?”
“How do I make progress? I either open it or I don’t open it. I haven’t
opened it.” Then
I think it’s about time. So I opened it, because I knew the last two
numbers and it was
easy to test the first numbers and open the safe. It was, you know,
seven minutes.
“Well,” I said, “seven minutes. Usually it takes me a little longer.” He
just dropped, you
know, with surprise, because it was a big safe, an expensive one, and he
didn’t realize it
could be opened in seven minutes, you see. So I explained it to him. I
said to him,
“These safes are unsafe when they’re open. I did this to demonstrate to
you that a
156
person can get the combination off when they’re open,” and so on. That
was the
purpose of my demonstration. I mean, it wasn’t just to tease him.
Weiner:
Let me interrupt at this point —
Feynman:
Yeah. Want any more safes?
Weiner:
No, because I’m going to have to run. So I suggest that when we get
together —
Feynman:
I’ve got one more safe.
Weiner:
Oh, all right. Please do that, while I’m putting stuff — crack that one.
Feynman:
Yeah. Well, I have actually two more safes, but — you want this? I’ll
tell the rest of the
safe stories next time, if you want. Ok. All right. Two more safes.
Weiner:
The next time, I think we will try to get from Los Alamos to Cornell,
the wind-up of the
project at Los Alamos, —
Feynman:
— Yeah, ok —
Weiner:
— and why Cornell, and how —
Feynman:
157
— you don’t have to record all this. We’ll just do it next time.
Richard Feynman interview transcript used with permission by Melanie
Jackson
Agency, LLC.
158
NIELS BOHR LIBRARY & ARCHIVES / TRANSCRIPT
ONE PHYSICS ELLIPSE, COLLEGE PARK, MD 20740 • (301)-209-3177 •
NBL@AIP.ORG
Richard Feynman - Session III
June 27, 1966
Interviewed by: Charles Weiner
Location: Altadena, California
Transcript version date: December 18, 2024
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1063/nbla.sksq.oqxv
1
Abstract:
Interview covers the development of several branches of theoretical
physics from the
1930s through the 1960s; the most extensive discussions deal with topics
in quantum
electrodynamics, nuclear physics as it relates to fission technology,
meson field theory,
superfluidity and other properties of liquid helium, beta decay and the
Universal Fermi
Interaction, with particular emphasis on Feynman's work in the
reformulation of
quantum electrodynamic field equations. Early life in Brooklyn, New
York; high school;
undergraduate studies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology; learning
the theory of
relativity and quantum mechanics on his own. To Princeton University
(John A.
Wheeler), 1939; serious preoccupation with problem of self-energy of
electron and other
problems of quantum field theory; work on uranium isotope separation;
Ph.D., 1942.
Atomic bomb project, Los Alamos (Hans Bethe, Niels Bohr, Enrico Fermi);
test
explosion at Alamagordo. After World War II teaches mathematical physics
at Cornell
University; fundamental ideas in quantum electrodynamics crystalize;
publishes "A
Space-Time View," 1948; Shelter Island Conference (Lamb shift); Poconos
Conferences;
relations with Julian Schwinger and Shin'ichiro Tomonaga; nature and
quality of
scientific education in Latin America; industry and science policies. To
California
Institute of Technology, 1951; problems associated with the nature of
superfluid helium;
work on the Lamb shift (Bethe, Michel Baranger); work on the law of beta
decay and
violation of parity (Murray Gell-Mann); biological studies; philosophy
of scientific
discovery; Geneva Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy;
masers (Robert
Hellwarth, Frank Lee Vernon, Jr.), 1957; Solvay Conference, 1961.
Appraisal of current
state of quantum electrodynamics; opinion of the National Academy of
Science; Nobel
Prize, 1965.
2
Usage Information and Disclaimer:
This transcript, or substantial portions thereof, may not be
redistributed by any means
except with the written permission of the American Institute of Physics.
AIP oral history transcripts are based on audio recordings, and the
interviewer and
interviewee have generally had the opportunity to review and edit a
transcript, such that
it may depart in places from the original conversation. If you have
questions about the
interview, or you wish to consult additional materials we may have that
are relevant to it,
please contact us at nbl@aip.org for further information.
Please bear in mind that this oral history was not intended as a
literary product and
therefore may not read as clearly as a more fully edited source. Also,
memories are not
fully reliable guides to past events. Statements made within the
interview represent a
subjective appreciation of events as perceived at the time of the
interview, and factual
statements should be corroborated by other sources whenever possible or
be clearly
cited as a recollection.
3
Weiner:
You haven’t gotten to Cornell yet?
Feynman:
I haven’t even gotten to Cornell yet.
Weiner:
Let me just establish one thing, that it’s June 27, 1966, and we are
resuming, after an
intermission of a few months, our tape-recorded session with Professor
Richard
Feynman, and with Charles —
Feynman:
That’s me. I’m here.
Weiner:
Hey, Ma! — and with Charles Weiner occasionally interrupting. We were
just saying that
last time, we left off at Los Alamos, where you were cracking safes, and
we had agreed
last time that the next thing to do was to get you to Cornell. One of
the things I’d like to
talk about is this transition—how the idea of going to Cornell came up,
what you had
thought at Los Alamos about what you would do after the war, when you
knew that the
war’s end was approaching. I’d like these details. Then we’ll cover the
transition period.
Then we’ll talk about what happened after you got to Cornell.
Feynman:
Well, the details I don’t remember. Bethe was a man I worked under. I
gradually got so I
would say I loved him. I liked him so much. He’s such a nice fellow. I
would say I loved
the guy, you know? He was from Cornell. As the war was nearing the end,
after the
explosion at Alamogordo when we began to see the end — or maybe it was
earlier than
that—the question was: what are we going to do? Or maybe it was VE Day
in Europe or
something. You know, your mind began to work on it. Somewhere along the
line, I got
an offer of a job from Cornell, through Bethe’s influence there. And
that’s what I
wanted to do. I never considered anything else. I got other offers from
other places, but
I just didn’t consider them because I wanted to be with Hans Bethe. I
don’t understand
now why. I liked him very much, and I never regretted that decision, but
I did get other
offers.
4
Weiner:
From where?
Feynman:
All I remember is something from California.
Weiner:
Berkeley?
Feynman:
Probably. I don’t remember very well. It was simple. I decided to go to
Cornell. They
offered me what then was a fair salary, but they didn’t realize at
Cornell what was going
on in the world, what was happening right after the war when the
salaries offered were
very much higher all over. What happened as a result was only that every
once in a while
I would get a letter from Cornell telling me that I’d get a raise. See,
I hadn’t gone there
yet, but I got a succession of raises while I was still at Los Alamos. I
believe that the
raises were the result of Bethe’s knowledge of the various offers that
were being made to
me, which I was refusing. But being rather idealistic, I was refusing
them irrespective of
salary, simply on the basis that I wanted to go to Cornell because Bethe
was going to be
there and he sounded like a good guy to work with. So I believed. That’s
what I think
happened. That’s why I paid no attention. I can’t remember who offered
me what. All I
remember was the, to me, amusing thing, that I got a series of at least
three raises, if not
four, before I arrived at Cornell, without any effort on my part
whatsoever to have done
a thing.
Weiner:
You gave me last time a letter about one of the raises. That was sent to
you at Los
Alamos?
Feynman:
That was a letter from somebody suggesting to somebody else at Cornell
that they raise
my salary.
Weiner:
That was probably when you were there. I think it was probably ‘46.
5
Feynman:
Well, I wasn’t there then, no. This was one of the letters asking to
raise my salary even
though I hadn’t been there yet. That was some internal problem at
Cornell, as to why
this guy gets raises when he hasn’t done anything yet. But they were
moving more in line
with the prevailing wages of the day.
Weiner:
Where were the other guys going? Do you remember what the feeling was?
Feynman:
Oh, people were going all over. They were looking for their home bases.
There was a lot
of jockeying around, people looking for guys, a lot of guys getting
jobs.
Weiner:
Did you sense a competition between, say, Chicago and Berkeley?
Feynman:
Oh, I think there was probably competition. I was not sensitive. I had
decided to go to
Cornell. Oh, I remember. Later, the question of who else would go to
Cornell became
interesting, and there was competition for certain guys that Bethe would
like or I would
like very much as a good friend. I think Bill Woodward, and probably Bob
Wilson, who
I worked with.
Weiner:
At Princeton?
Feynman:
I’d worked with him at Princeton. Other people I liked had been offered
jobs at Cornell
too, and some of them were more doubtful than others as to whether they
would go.
And I would help to try to convince them that it would be great to go. I
remember
vaguely feeling that it would be great if these guys would be there, and
making some
effort to get a few of them. But I don’t remember know which ones were
in doubt. But
there were doubts and considerations and discussions as to who would be
where, so we
would try to think ahead. Not think ahead, but one felt the interest as
to who would be
there, all these friends. We were a lot of friends by that time, and you
want to know if
your pal is going to be at the same place that you’re going to be at
later. But I don’t
remember ever thinking not to go to Cornell. All I remember is trying to
do my best to
6
convince anybody else that I wanted to be with to come to Cornell.
Weiner:
Wilson didn’t go direct. He went to Harvard, I think, for a year.
Feynman:
Well, perhaps. Perhaps Wilson was one of the ones that I was worried
about the most,
who didn’t go. I don’t know. There were some we lost, but I think we won
in the end or
something like that.
Weiner:
When did you leave Los Alamos?
Feynman:
I left a little earlier than most. I left in time to begin the school
year in Ithaca. My
memory says November, but this is incredible. I mean, something’s the
matter, because I
don’t think the school year starts in November. However, I got there
before the school
year began by some period of time. I described that to you also.
Weiner:
You went as an associate professor?
Feynman:
Probably an assistant professor. I just don’t know. I think I would be
the lowest rank.
Weiner:
I thought so too, but biographical references and so forth seem to show
—
Feynman:
— but I was getting raises rapidly. At the beginning, you see, the world
of the old
university, the men who were left behind, didn’t know what was
happening. As soon as
the wild scramble began, the demands were such that raises in salary and
rank probably
came in rapid succession. I can’t tell you what form I was in when I got
there.
7
Weiner:
But you said you can describe your reaction when you got there.
Feynman:
Yeah. The first thing is, I was invited on the way to give a talk in
Iowa, on something —
Iowa State University — and I stopped there. I can’t remember why I
decided to do that,
but I did that. This I just remember, but I don’t know why. Then I went
on the train. I
went on the train all the way to Ithaca. Now they had asked me to come
at a certain date,
and all during the war, when anything was on a certain date there was a
lot of pressure.
Like, when I would go to Oak Ridge, I had to figure out on the airplane
during the time
and so on, and you got this idea that everything is done for a certain
day. They would
like me to begin on such and such a day. I thought that that was the
first day of classes.
So, on the train I prepared my course to teach. I was supposed to teach
mathematical
methods of physics, which is sort of a mathematics course, applications
in physics, for
graduate students. So, on the train I prepared the outlines and worked
out the whole
course. I’d never taught a course before. I had it all figured out on
the train. I can tell an
amusing story — you can always later throw it away, you know? I finally
arrived in Ithaca
at 2 a. m. or 12 something, in the night. I got off the train, and I
slung my suitcase onto
my shoulder as I always used to. Then I said: “Wait a minute now. You’re
a professor,
and you have to try and behave like one.” A porter asked me: “Can I
carry your
suitcase?” “No, I carry my own.” Then I realized: I’ve got to start
living in a dignified
way. So I let him carry it to a taxi, and I sat rather elegantly in the
back of the taxi, and
the guy says, “Where to?” I say, “Biggest hotel in town, please.” He
said, “That would be
the Hotel Ithaca.” On the way he says, “Do you have a reservation?” I
say, “No.” “Well,
the hotel situation’s tough. I’ll take you there, but I’ll wait for you.
They probably haven’t
got room.” So I went and sure enough, they didn’t have room. I went to
another hotel
and they didn’t have room. I left the suitcase there, and I dropped the
taxi — it was too
expensive. I started to walk around the town to find some place to stay
and took quite a
while. I didn’t find anything. Then I found another man wandering about,
and he didn’t
find anything either. So the two of us started out together, and we
wandered. We
wandered in various directions, and we thought to stop at someone’s home
and ask if
they knew any place that you could stay in this town, and so on. Just
about that time, we
noticed a building. We could see through the window there were a lot of
beds, like
several double-decker beds, you know, and so on. Obviously it was some
kind of
dormitory for students or something. And we went to that to ask them if
maybe they
had an extra bed or something. We went to the door and there was nobody
there. It was
completely empty. I never did figure out exactly what it was, but we
went in, we went
upstairs, we saw the beds, and we figured this would be a good place to
stay. This friend
of mine said, “All right, I think we should stay here.” “Great idea.”
Then I suddenly
realized: “I’m a professor” — you see, and that wouldn’t be so good.
See, I never had
been a professor, and I was a very lively character, and everybody had
been teasing me
about Cornell back at the other end -– “Wait until they find out what
they’ve got.” So I
8
was trying to avoid it should it be too bad — you know? So then I
realized this wouldn’t
be good. I’d wake up in the morning, the guys come in, they say, “Who
the hell are
you?” — kick me out — it turns out it was a professor. You know, it’s
not so good. So I
told him I couldn’t do that without permission from somewhere. He said,
“Oh, all right.
Come on.” So we went out. We started to wander around some more. Then we
found
ourselves evidently on the campus, because there were buildings of a
school, and there
was a great pile of leaves raked up — a great big thing. It would be
good to sleep in. We
had to sleep somewhere. Unfortunately it was under a light, a street
light. We decided to
find another pile of leaves. Just then we found a building with a light
in it. We went in
and there were some couches in a big lobby, like leather couches. So I
went and found a
janitor who was working there at 2 a. m. “Is it okay to sleep up there?”
“Okay,” he says,
so we slept on these couches. In the morning I went into a kind of men’s
room that was
there and washed up and so on. This was for my first day. I’d prepared
myself then, and
I ran to the physics office by 9 o’clock, figuring this was the first
class. I didn’t know
whether my first class was at 9, 10, or 11. See, I thought I’d be ready.
When I got there I
was shocked to discover they’d asked me to come a week early, because
they’d figured
I’d need time to get used to the place, settle down, we would get used
to you, and all this
slow stuff. See, I was going like a firecracker trying to find anybody
in the office:
“Where’s the boss? Where’s the — what’s the? — Where’s my class?” and
all this stuff.
It was completely — like the nervousness of working during the war. And
this university
in the backwoods of New York State was going at the typical university
rate: “Well, he
should come and get used to us…” So I sat in the man’s office all
excited. “When do I
give my class?” and he’s talking so slowly and batting the breeze about
the weather; I
couldn’t get used to it. No businesslike, you know no beep-beep-beep. At
any rate, he
told me it was a week ahead, or five or six days ahead at any rate,
before my class began.
I was all prepared to walk into it within the next five minutes. Then I
said to him, “Well
I have a little trouble with a room. Where can I sleep?” He says, “You
go down to a
place called Willard Strait Hall, a communal thing for the students, and
there’s an office
there. They’ll give you a place to sleep, see?” So he told me the
directions and I
wandered down to Willard Strait Hall and went into the center there, saw
this booth or
something, went up to it and said to the fellow — remember, I looked
rather young — I
said to him, “I wonder if you could tell me where I could stay, you
know, get a room to
live in?” He says, “Listen, Buddy, the room situation is tough. In fact,
it’s so tough that
believe it or not, a professor had to sleep in the lobby here last
night.” So I say, “Look,
Buddy — I’m that professor. Now, do something for me, will you?” The
thing that
amused me and bothered me already was that I had tried to come to
Cornell without
making any kind of a noise that I’m peculiar. I’m not there more than
one half a day, and
not only is there a rumor about me, but it’s so extent that I hear it
myself right away. So
that was my beginning at Cornell. I don’t know if you want that kind of
amusing —?
Weiner:
Fine.
9
Feynman:
But then I did find a room, not a good one, and I stayed in it all the
time. You know
how a young man is. A fool. He should find a very good place to live,
and not just any
old place to live. I lived in any old place for a long time. I’ve
learned since that you
should unpack your suitcase, settle down, and live nicely. It takes a
little longer to find a
place, but it’s worth it. Anyhow, I can’t remember the first days, but
then I started to
teach this class. The thing that I had prepared was, I realize now, as I
think about it for
the first time, much like those lectures I prepared in physics.
Weiner:
You mean those known as the Feynman Lectures?
Feynman:
Right. What I did was, I tried to describe the entire subject with some
kind of
completeness, and tried to explain to the boys that these pieces all fit
together. They
certainly couldn’t learn quickly; it’s too complicated. But I wanted to
mention them so
they knew what the words meant and learned what they were filling out,
you see. And to
my great surprise they learned everything. So my course was really a
complete course in
mathematical physics, very complete, and they learned everything. I was
very surprised.
Weiner:
This was a one semester course?
Feynman:
I don’t remember. Probably one year. Anyway, that course had a great
influence, it turns
out, and some of the students who have taken it have made corresponding
courses in
other schools, and so on. In fact, our Caltech course here is made by
Bob Walker,
patterned after that course, because he was a student of mine at
Cornell. So that has had
some influence, although it’s not published anywhere. But you know what
I mean. I did
have some success in teaching. That’s what I’m trying to say. It worked
out all right.
Weiner:
How did you feel when you got up for the first time in front of a class?
Feynman:
I had no problem. By this time I had gotten up a number of times at Los
Alamos to
10
explain or to give lectures on some subject, and I seemed to have
discovered some knack
to do it. And people told me I did OK. So I had no trouble with teaching
the class. Not
at all.
Weiner:
You had the Princeton seminar experience too.
Feynman:
Well, that was more of a shock. I mean, that was not enough to learn.
It’s just one. But
many times discussing and explaining things at Los Alamos, apparently —
it’s the only
way I can figure it out, because I have never had any trouble lecturing
in classes after the
first couple of times that I did it.
Weiner:
When you got there, was Bethe there too?
Feynman:
No, Bethe hadn’t come back yet. He came back some short time after.
Weiner:
Who else was there?
Feynman:
I don’t remember. Parrit was there, Lyman Parrit, and the head of the
department,
whose name was Gibbs, R. C. Gibbs, was there. And there was another
important man
whose name at the moment escapes me. It’s just crazy. It’s one of these
blocks.
Weiner:
Was Bacher back there yet?
Feynman:
No. I can’t remember the exact timing. There weren’t very many people
that I know.
They were not people I knew. But they came rather rapidly, within a
month or two. I
was just a month or two early in getting out of Los Alamos. I was one of
the first rats to
run from the ship. But the others came. In fact, there was an
arrangement, because
11
Bethe felt that although we both couldn’t get out, it would be good to
help them get
started to have at least one guy there. But he got out pretty soon after
that. My first year
at Cornell was quite interesting in many ways. You see, I had lost my
wife, and so I was a
bachelor really — right? And I found the girls at first rather
interesting in Cornell. I
would go to freshman mixers and so on. At that time, there were many
students who
had come back from the Army who were old-looking, and it was kind of
mixed up. It
was difficult to tell who was what. So while I was a professor I could
act very much like a
student, even a freshman. I could be mistaken for a freshman in a
perfectly legitimate
way. I remember the first dance I went to. See, I wasn’t sure of myself.
I’d danced with
my previous wife and so on, but I hadn’t danced with a girl to try to
get a girl to like me
in so many years that it was kind of experimental. And I remember the
first dance that I
went to which was a freshman mixer of some sort. The freshman girls were
there and I
was there and so on. I remember I would dance with one, and we’d dance
along — we
were dancing all right — everything going all right. Then she would
start to talk to me
and ask me some questions and converse, and then at the end of the first
dance she’d
say, “Excuse me, I’ve got to powder my nose,” or something. And this
went on with
three or four girls. I didn’t know what the hell the matter with me was.
But one girl,
fortunately, had the nerve to tell me. We danced a while, and she would
ask — you
know, they’d ask who you are? I’d say, “Well, I’m in physics.” “What are
you?” “Well,
I’m a professor of physics,” and so on. And she’d ask more questions,
and then she’d
say, “What did you do during the war? I’d say, “I worked at Los Alamos
on the atomic
bomb,” and then she said, “I suppose you saw the atomic explosion in New
Mexico?”
and so on. I’d say, “Yeah.” “You’re a damned liar” — and she walked off.
They all
assumed that this guy was, you know, a big blow-off, a liar. So I
discovered that, and
after that I always concealed my background, and then was much more
successful. The
next time, I didn’t tell her the truth, and the girl didn’t walk away
after the first dance.
Weiner:
Isn’t that funny. I’d think it was very glamorous, then, in the mind of
a freshman.
Feynman:
It was too crazy. It was out of proportion. The girls were too smart to
believe all that
baloney. It was much easier — obviously it was the kind of thought that
some faker
would make up, you know? Then I taught my classes. Either I taught one
class or two
classes or else this went on longer, because I prepared mathematical
methods of physics,
and I also prepared a course in electricity and magnetism, whether at
the same time or
the next year I’m not sure, because those early years are confused.
There’s one or two
years involved. But I was busy working on the courses and doing really
nothing about
my — See, I had hoped to run back and do all this work on this physics
that we were
talking about. But I decided, when I first got there, I’ll take a little
rest. I’ll do my
courses, but I’ll rest. And I used to go to the library and read. In
fact, I read the Arabian
Nights all the time in the library. I tried to meet girls. I simply
didn’t do anything but
12
prepare the courses. I now realize that preparing a good course is a
good full time job,
but at that time I didn’t think that was hardly anything. I thought I
should be doing
research. So I got deeper and deeper into a kind of — I wouldn’t say
depression, because
I wasn’t depressed. I’m a lively and happy fellow. But behind it all I
was always worrying
about the fact that I wasn’t doing anything. I became conscious of the
possibility that I
was burned out, and I wouldn’t accomplish anything. It happens to
people. You see, this
was at first a vacation, but the vacation kept going and all I was doing
was preparing
classes, and I couldn’t get to work. I would fool around, go to a dance,
or I’d sit on the
grass and look at the sun, or I’d read the Arabian Nights, or play drums
or something —
in the room or something like that—and always never get down to work. I
couldn’t get
to work. And I began to think that this was the end. At the same time I
was perpetually
getting, as I explained to you, raises because they were still attacking
from the outside,
trying to get this guy out of there. And I would pay no attention to it.
In fact, I would
write a letter “no” without telling anybody, but apparently the
secretary would tell, or
somebody on the other end would ask or talk so that I was getting these
raises all the
time. If they’d offer me more money from somewhere else I would say no,
and I’d get
these raises — and they helped my psychology not one bit. Here I think:
I can’t do what
they think. You see? And their opinion is going up and up, and I’m
feeling less and less
adequate to the situation. And I feel guilty.
Weiner:
Where do you think this reputation came from? From Los Alamos? From the
people
who knew you there?
Feynman:
I think it’s probably from the work at Los Alamos, yes. It’s partly from
something from
Princeton. The guys must have known the thesis; they might have thought
it was good.
But I think Bethe knows what I was able to do at Los Alamos and all
these little jobs —
he had probably a considerable feeling that it was… I don’t know
exactly. That’s from
the outside. I didn’t understand it at that time, and I’m not going to
try to understand it.
At that time I thought, they’re cockeyed. See — they’re wrong. I
thought, they don’t
know. I’m no good. So I kept doing the class OK, but nothing else. This
went on for
nearly two years or over. I still remember, everyone in a while somebody
would get a
problem, something about gamma rays, that I’d start to get interested in
— and then I
wouldn’t do anything. And then there would be some discussion — I’m not
doing
anything. I mean, other students would talk, why I don’t do anything,
and so on. So I
didn’t do any physics of the old kind. Little tiny things — but nothing
else. You know,
discuss with guys and all this. And teach the classes. So I had this
psychological thing,
see. I tried a number of things, like getting up every morning at 8:30,
try to work hard.
Nothing worked very well. So one day I got an offer from the Princeton
Institute of
Advanced Studies, which was where Einstein was. I’m looking at it from
my own point
of view — you know: there are great men out there, Einstein, other guys.
This was the
13
height of intellectual super-something. An offer from the Institute,
which wasn’t only an
offer, but they explained to me that they would let me be professor of
physics at
Princeton University half time, and at the Institute the other half of
the time, because
they knew of my feeling that there’s a little too much thinking at the
Institute of
Advanced Studies, not enough contact with the fundamental world. You
know what I
mean? So they would give me a special kind of a thing, even one notch
better than
Einstein in the sense that I would have liked to have contact with
students. But then I
would have the freedom of time to work in the Institute, so I wouldn’t
have as much of
a load. It was just perfect, and the salary much higher than I was
getting, and so on. OK?
But to me, in the psychological condition I was in, I concluded: “They
are absolutely
crazy!” So absurd was this proposition to me, so mistaken was it, so
obviously wrong,
that I was worth that — you know? I was shaving that morning. I knew I
would refuse
it. I was refusing many things. I was refusing them on the grounds that,
they don’t know
I’m no good. But this is so crazy, you see! While I’m shaving I think,
to myself, you
know –- “I can’t be responsible for dumbness like this. I can’t live up
to their idiot
impression, right?” In other words, I got the brilliant thought that I
had no responsibility
whatever to live up to somebody else’s impression of how good I am. That
was a
thought. And so I shouldn’t feel uncomfortable that I’m not as good as
they think I
ought to be. I never said I was. I never claimed a god darned thing.
See, this was like a
shock. It was so crazy from the point of view of where I was that it
clearly showed that
it’s impossible. I can’t live up to such a view. It’s impossible —
therefore I shouldn’t try
at all. And this gave me a new way of looking at the whole thing, and I
was released from
the guilt feeling. Coincidentally, about the same time, within a day,
Bob Wilson, who was
head of the nuclear lab and had something to do with paying my salary or
something,
called me into his office. I don’t know why. It would be interesting to
ask him why. He
gave me a talk of which the sole content was that when we hire a
professor we take a
risk, and it’s our risk — namely, the organization’s; that the chance
that a guy comes out
to really accomplish something it not high, and there are many
professors that just do
the work of teaching the class, and that’s perfectly all right, it’s
perfectly OK — you
know, this attitude, that we’re not responsible to the university. Now,
why he gave me
such a lecture at the time when I needed it I don’t know, but it was
right, at just the right
moment. I had just gotten the idea, and this came on top of it, and that
just turned it
around. So I decided that, when I was a kid, I used to enjoy the subject
for the fun of it.
I used to like nature and do it for the fun of it. So what I ought to do
is play games with
it, just whatever was curious and interesting to me — I should just
play. You see? Just
like I was when I was a kid — try to find a relation between things, do
this, do that,
whatever I felt like. I don’t have to do this problem because it’s
important or that
problem because it’s important, or everybody expects me to do something.
Weiner:
Because you weren’t trying to get your PhD, or working for the war.
14
Feynman:
That’s right. I had nothing. And now I wasn’t even trying to live up to
the reputation
that they had — you see, I had nothing left to live up to. OK? I had no
strain. So that
day, or the day after, within days — it’s very quick — this
psychological thing worked
like a charm. I was in the cafeteria eating as usual. I used to eat in
the students’ cafeteria
because I liked to look at the girls. And some kid throws a plate up
into the air. You
know how kids are always — plate goes up in the air and comes down. Now
the plates at
Cornell had a blue seal at one side of the rim, and he threw his plate
up in the air, and it
was sort of flat and wobbled, almost horizontal but with a slight
wobble. At the same
time, the blue mark on it, the insignia on the plate, went around the
plate. And it looked
to me interesting. The wobble and the motion seemed to be related. So I
wondered,
what is the relation? How many wobbles per rotation is it? So, after
fiddling around with
the equations of this thing — see, this is a new thing, to play, just to
play — I found out
that if the wobble isn’t very high, if it’s almost horizontal and just
slightly wobbly, it goes
around (if I remember rightly) twice. The insignia goes around twice,
while the wobble
motion goes around exactly once. It’s cute, and it’s a nice
relationship, two to one. But
then, because I always liked to do this, I wanted to understand, not
from the equations,
but from Newton’s laws alone why, if a plate is spinning at a certain
rate and it starts to
wobble, it’ll wobble at exactly half the speed, you see, because there’s
a nice ratio and a
simple proposition. I want to see the forces, not just set up the
Legrangian and
differentiate all these equations—no, but how it worked for a disk. So
after considerable
effort on that afternoon, fiddling and drawing diagrams and forces and
so on, I saw an
easy way to see how the motion would mean that all the acceleration was
normally
balanced and that was the right motion, by hand, you know. So I ran into
Bethe’s office
and I said, “Hey, I saw something funny about a disk,” and this and
that, and I show him
all this stuff, see. And he says to me, “But what’s the importance of
that?” I remember
saying, “Hans, it doesn’t have any importance. I don’t care whether a
thing has
importance. They haven’t got importance. Isn’t it fun?” He says, “It’s
fun.” “Well, that’s
all I’m going to do from now on.” Within a week, altogether, this
question of the
rotation started me worrying about rotations, and then old questions
about the spinning
electron, and how to represent it in the path integrals and in the
quantum mechanics
came back, and I was in my work again. It just opened the gate. It
worked, getting at all
the junk I used to play with before in the same old spirit, and so on.
So I got free at that
moment.
Weiner:
That, you think, was in the second year.
Feynman:
That’s in the second year.
15
Weiner:
The academic year 1946-47.
Feynman:
Yeah. It can’t be very much before I did the work for which I got the
prize. It wasn’t
very long before.
Weiner:
Let me try to fix a date in your mind. I came across this: “The Future
of Nuclear
Science.” It was at Princeton University Bicentennial Conference.
Feynman:
While you’re talking, I’m thinking.
Weiner:
OK. That’s what I’m trying to do.
Feynman:
I get a certain amount of confusion, because I can remember in one
room—see, I always
remember where I did the work. Yes. OK. I had a year or half a year of
working hard
before I got something. I played with a lot of things. I got started
with the path integral.
I did an awful lot of work then, trying to make my path integrals work
with spinning
electrons. There was a long period of that.
Weiner:
That was ‘46 some time?
Feynman:
No, because ‘46 is when I got to Princeton — rather, Cornell. So it’s at
least a year and a
half or two years later. The best way to find out is when the hell I got
the offer from
Princeton.
Weiner:
You left Los Alamos in ‘45.
16
Feynman:
Yeah, you’re right, in ‘45.
Weiner:
So if you had months or even a year of getting used to the place, it
still puts you —
Feynman:
— something like a year, and a year and a half.
Weiner:
Now, there was a conference at Princeton sometime in the fall of ‘46.
Feynman:
Right.
Weiner:
And you were there.
Feynman:
Right.
Weiner:
And you said a few things — I’m trying to help you fix the date, but I
also want to know
about this conference, because —
Feynman:
I’ll tell you about the conference.
Weiner:
All right, tell me about how come you were invited, what it represented
in your mind. It
sounds like a —
17
Feynman:
— all right. Good. Conference had a bicentennial or something?
Weiner:
Yes, bicentennial.
Feynman:
OK. They had a bicentennial. And I was invited by Professor Wigner —
presumably
because he thought my work was good when I was at Princeton, as a
Princeton boy —
to come to the bicentennial. Also Dirac was going to give a paper, and
would I please
introduce it? OK? I think I was in the same psychological condition,
because I
remember feeling at that point like a ward-heeler in the 53rd district
introducing the
President of the United States — you know what I mean? It’s about as
important as an
introduction. Who knows me, that I should introduce Dirac? That’s clear.
It could have
been in any period, but I would guess that this was before my release,
my psychological
release. I’m just guessing. Anyway, I went to that, because it was an
interesting
conference, and I had a lot of trouble there of a certain kind which is
interesting. I went
to the meeting, and the meeting was very peculiar. It was of scientists
as well as high
school teachers. So there was a mixture of: how to educate the young,
discussions of
atomic energy, and the atomic bomb and technical sort of discussions,
what is theoretical
physics doing these days, in which there was Dirac’s paper, etc. Now,
Dirac gave his
paper. He had given me a copy. By the way, it was handwritten.
Weiner:
You don’t have that, do you?
Feynman:
No. No. He gave me a copy ahead of time so I could read it, so I could
prepare my
remarks. Now, I’m trying to remember the best I can what happened. The
first thing
that struck me when I read it was that this was on the wrong track. I
had been doing this
work on electrodynamics, and I felt that he was going backwards and
working more and
more in Hamiltonian and it’s just not going to get anywhere, and that
really the paper
was not important. That’s what I thought, that it didn’t seem to me to
get anywhere.
Furthermore, it was highly technical, very technical, and the audience
was a mixed
audience. I have a feeling for the guys in the audience, and I felt bad
for all these
teachers that wouldn’t understand what in the hell is this all about.
After I introduced
him, I was supposed to make some remarks afterwards, you see. So after
he gave his
lecture I made some remarks. I tried to explain what Dirac was talking
about in the
simplest possible language, so that the teachers and other people could
understand me
18
and understand what the hell this was about. See, he was telling about
the problems of
quantum electrodynamics which were not solved, and he was working on
this problem.
So I tried to explain to the audience, but my audience was not my
technical friends but
the teachers and other people. Historians were there, see — in physics,
scientifically
oriented, but still. So I tried to explain the position of
electrodynamics, say what Dirac
had been talking about, and then make a criticism of Dirac on the
grounds that he wasn’t
coming to the central problems, and explain what the problems were and
so on. When I
got through — of course, in my usual way I made jokes as I talked along
and so on —
when I got through my good friend Weisskopf said to me, “It’s a shame.
It makes me
feel sad to see a good friend of mine make such a poor presentation.”
That hurt me a
little bit, because I wasn’t confident. See, it was a poor presentation,
if I were really
criticizing at the same technical level. So he wasn’t even thinking
about the other guys,
and I was thinking about the other guys. Then Bohr got up and said,
“Feynman makes
very many jokes,” and so on, “but aside from the jokes we have some
important
problems here to discuss.” You see, my level was aimed at somebody else,
and these
guys all thought in their private, provincial way they should worry
about their own
technical problems and discuss technically what Dirac had done. So I had
done
something not right. I was criticized by Bohr also for talking in such a
light-hearted
fashion.
Weiner:
He did this publicly in his comment?
Feynman:
Yeah, yeah, with some joke about Feynman and his jokes.
Weiner:
By the way, you had met Bohr earlier?
Feynman:
Yes. I’d met Bohr earlier. I haven’t told you anything about my
relations with Bohr, but I
should. Are you sure I haven’t talked about Bohr coming to Los Alamos?
All right, put
that down because that’s interesting. At any rate, he was there. And
then he made some
commentary which I thought was absurd, which was that the infinities
that we were
getting in these various theories were all going to balance out, that
there would be more
particles — there’s protons, then there’s mesons, there’s this, there’s
plus signs and
minus signs and plus signs and minus signs, plus infinities, positive
energies and negative
energies, C’s and positive energies, background, and they’re all going
to add up, so there
was no problem. He therefore deduced there must be one more particle of
such and
such a kind, in order for this to work. That sounded crazy to me, just
instinctively. It
19
was, of course. So I didn’t like that theory. And they’re all sitting
around worrying, and
they’re talking, and I look out the window, and through all this Mr.
Dirac, paying no
attention to anybody, had walked out and was sitting on the grass, lying
on the grass with
his elbow against his head looking up at the sky. I thought, that’s
interesting, and I went
out too. I went out to him and I said, “I guess you don’t care what
they’re saying — I
don’t remember, something like that, because I didn’t believe what they
were saying
either. I felt a kindred spirit. I talked to him a minute. But the main
thing I remember
was, I’d wanted always to ask him a question, and I asked it. I said,
“Do you know, in
your book you make the relationship that the action in classical
mechanics is analogous
to ei over h times the action, times the Legrangian, is analogous to the
operator carrier
for an infinitesimal times from one position to another, from one wave
function to the
next, really from one position to another.” I said, “Did you know that
they’re not only
analogous but they’re equal? Or rather proportional?” He said, “No, are
they? Are they
proportional?” I said, “Yes.” So at least I found out that the discovery
which I had made
which led me on, that I told you about, that they were really
proportional, was really a
new thing. He himself hadn’t noticed this, but I didn’t know. For all I
knew, he always
thought they were proportional. See, I still had the belief that he
thought they were
proportional and simply was explaining that. But anyway he said that he
didn’t know
they were. He said, “Oh, are they?” That’s what he said. I said, “Yes
they are.” “That’s
very interesting.” That was the end of the conversation, I think. But
anyway, that’s what
happened at the Princeton Bicentennial.
Weiner:
I found the brochure —
Feynman:
— now you’re going to prove something.
Weiner:
No. No, it’s different, a different matter. They’re talking about the
discussion of particle
theory after Dirac’s talk, and this is a summary, see, and I spoke to
the guy who ran the
show. I asked him about a month ago at Princeton, when I was putting
this together, did
he have a Proceedings, the paper?
Feynman:
It’s interesting that you get me to tell all this before you read it,
because it’s fun to see the
difference between what’s remembered and —
Weiner:
20
— well, it says here, “Typical were the comments and queries made by R.
P. Feynman of
Cornell University and Gregory Breit of the University of Wisconsin.”
Then they have a
big quote, and I think it’s from Breit, and then they say, “But perhaps
all this may best
have been summed by the comment of Dr.
Feynman:
‘We need an intuitive leap at the mathematical formalism, such as we had
in the Dirac
electron theory.’” Editor’s note: “The theory which predicted the
positron discovered in
1932.” Then to go back to your quote: “We need a stroke of genius.” This
they
categorized —
Feynman:
— let me see if the quotation’s from Breit or from me.
Weiner:
No, that’s from you. The earlier one, I’m not sure. They don’t give any
credit.
Feynman:
Why don’t you turn that off, save tape, while I read this? It’s
certainly possible I said
that, this part that you’re talking about, the part you didn’t read.
It’s possible. It sounds
like I might have. What I was trying to do was to explain the character
of the problem,
and I think that may have been a quotation from me, but I can’t tell you
for sure.
Weiner:
It has your picture on the back page; it has a whole group picture. See
what you look
like.
Feynman:
Yeah? It looks kind of young.
Weiner:
You’re behind Wheeler.
Feynman:
I see myself. Wait — is that? I can’t see good now. I’m too old. I’ll
look at it again. Isn’t
21
it — yes, “the Future of Nuclear Science?” See here –- “Scholarship in
the Secondary
School.” That was part of the conference. All these poor guys were
sitting in the
audience while these guys are talking all this technical stuff. So I — I
screwed it up,
according to my friends… Yes?
Weiner:
Did you get a feeling after the war, and was this conference a symbol of
it, that the
whole field of nuclear physics was now in a new stage, that there was a
whole new
excitement brewing? What was the effect of the war in nuclear physics,
other than the
fission question? Was it just a question of marking time until the job
was done and
getting back to the old problems?
Feynman:
Yes. Yes. With one great advantage. There were a large number of new
tools available
because of the neutron piles and so on, which produced very large
numbers of neutrons,
new kinds of experiments, and so on.
Weiner:
What was the effect of bringing theoreticians and others into contact in
a single place, in
Los Alamos?
Feynman:
That kind of a thing, like social effect in science, would be outside my
interest. They
obviously had effects, but I wouldn’t be interested in them at that
time. My impression at
that time was only that we had marked time. Of course it had a big
influence. We not
only marked time. Obviously I met somebody; I did some work. Everybody
did
something. There was a change. But regarding the feeling, as far as I
was concerned we
just were getting back to something. There were three problems of
importance, three
differences, I would say. One was the technical, experimental tools that
had been
developed. Well, two at least, that I can think of. I can’t see what I
said “three” for.
Another was a question in people’s minds having to do with secrecy
associated with
science, that the nuclear work and all this stuff was in secrecy. What
kind of influence
was that going to have? How were we going to keep going doing nuclear
research when
there were secrets or regions that were secret in the physics? You know,
it was a problem
that was in our minds. It never amounted to any difficulty as far as I
know, anywhere.
They worried about it then.
Weiner:
There were a lot of talks on it.
22
Feynman:
Right. But it turned out that somehow or other that problem was averted.
As far as I
know — maybe other people don’t agree — there was in my experience no
serious
difficulty produced because information was maintained as secret that
was essential to a
more or less fundamental understanding, or was kept secret too long.
There were
important things which were released gradually — but in time, so to
speak.
Weiner:
Now, this conference, as far as its effect on your own work goes, you
seem to think that
it was before you had gotten into this new psychological state.
Feynman:
Yes. See, I only remember the part of it having to do with Dirac. The
rest of the
conference didn’t mean a damn thing — can’t be remembered. I don’t
remember
anything, except vaguely the problems being discussed. But I do remember
another
thing, which is just consistent. The usual feeling I had in the years
before was reinforced:
the feeling that the big guys don’t know what they’re doing. They’re not
getting to the
problem. See, I felt that Dirac’s paper was not on the ball, that Bohr’s
commentary was
cockeyed, and they hadn’t gotten at it. They were in the wrong
direction. I don’t know
what the right direction is, but the problem still isn’t solved
completely. But I still felt
that they were on the wrong track, and that was a feeling of a certain
amount of
confidence. Whether that instigated me to do more work or not, I can
only tell by
looking at what date I did different things, and I don’t date my papers
so I can’t tell you.
That’ll take some work, to find out if that had an influence.
Weiner:
Well, you can date your published papers.
Feynman:
Oh, yes, but they take time to write.
Weiner:
Let’s get back to Cornell, then, if that’s the important place. So you
got into this new
frame of mind, and you decided to play and do things because they
interested you, and
not to worry about —
23
Feynman:
Right. Very rapidly, within a week or so from that time, the things
which interested me
were the old things which interested me, like path integrals and how to
do spinning
electrons with path integrals, and I spent an awful lot of time on that,
a tremendous
amount of time. I can’t remember what it adds up to. I at that time had
met Robert
Frank and his wife, and I was often invited to their home for dinner and
so on. I
remember many times working over there — see, I can remember what I’m
doing in
terms of where I’m getting the ideas or where I’m working — and talking
the problems
over with Bob Frank. That would help me date it, if I could talk to him.
In other words,
I was working on this stuff.
Weiner:
You talked over problems with him. Anyone else at Cornell you discussed
this with?
Feynman:
Possibly, but I don’t know. They were very private problems to me — this
special
problem of making a math integral to do spin. And I studied quaternions
in the books in
the math library and read all about Hamilton, who was a great ideal of
mine. I like
Hamilton. Hamilton, also Maxwell. So I learned about quaternions and
thought that was
a very important thing, and partly solved some of the problems of
getting this. In one
dimension I did a very pretty relativistic theory of an electron by path
integrals. It was so
exciting that I was sure that I could gradually work it out in four — in
two dimensions,
space and time, one space and one time. But I never did figure out how
to date the
analogue in four dimensions in a happy way.
Weiner:
This is the period, too, that you went back to the earlier paper. We’ve
discussed that
before. The paper that you had done with Wheeler. Just too sort of set
the record
straight. Remember this? It was a 1945 paper that you published.
Feynman:
Oh, no. No, that was not going back. That was done by Wheeler. If the
paper says
Wheeler and Feynman on it, and it’s published in 1945 — it was written
by Wheeler.
Weiner:
Then you picked it up. You had something to say on it in ‘48.
24
Feynman:
Oh, ‘48, yes. I haven’t got there yet.
Weiner:
That’s right, of course. We’re still ‘46-‘47. Anyway we covered that
particular paper last
time.
Feynman:
Somewhere along the line, I visited a good friend, Mr. Burt Corbin, whom
I met at
Princeton somewhere, at some time in the past. But I visited him and
stayed at his house
for several weeks on end in Pittsburgh, and we discussed much in
physics. Now, I don’t
know exactly when this is, but when we’re there, he convinces me or
someone convinces
me or I convince myself that this is a great opportunity to write up for
publication my
work that I did for my thesis, a piece of it anyway having to do with
how to do quantum
mechanics with path integrals. And so he or somebody convinced me to
work it out,
write it up, and we worked together. We didn’t work exactly, but I
talked to him while I
was trying to write it, and reformulate, reformulate, until we got an
axiomatic way of
describing it. And then I wrote it up and handed it in, sent it in to
the Physical Review,
and they suggested I print it in Reviews of Modern Physics. They sent it
back first, and
Bethe taught me the trick. They sent it back and said it was too long
and this and that,
and this stuff is old hat or something like that. Not exactly, but they
said that this first
part was well known to everybody and you could leave it out. Bethe said
you should
write back a note which says that you realize it’s well known, but in
order to show how
from the well-known, with just a slight change, you go into the other
things, you have to
emphasize that this part is known, this part is not so known, and it
takes a few
paragraphs. “However, I will shorten it for you” — and then take out one
sentence. He
says if you just make a small effort in the direction indicated you
don’t have to take the
whole thing out. And that worked. They published it.
Weiner:
Reviews of Modern Physics?
Feynman:
Yes. And that’s the article called “Space Time View of Relativistic
Quantum Mechanics,”
published in Reviews of Modern Physics. OK? That’s the first article.
Weiner:
Yeah, that was published in 1948.
25
Feynman:
They’ll probably tell you when it was sent in.
Weiner:
Yeah, I think they even have the article here, and while you’re talking
I’ll look for that.
Feynman:
Yeah. Because I’m trying to remember.
Weiner:
Corbin — you mentioned Burt. In the paper you acknowledge H. C. Corbin.
Feynman:
That’s the boy.
Weiner:
And his wife. What role did his wife play? She cooked?
Feynman:
More than cooked. She was very enthusiastic, cooperating with my writing
and trying to
encourage me.
Weiner:
She wasn’t in physics, though.
Feynman:
Actually, she claimed to be at the time, and I half believed — I
believed it. And I would
explain it to her while I was doing it. I didn’t realize it at the time,
but I was explaining at
an ever and ever more elementary level, and I would explain a great deal
to her too. But
to Burt I didn’t have to explain on such an elementary level. So we
discussed it. Anyway,
it was just like a foil for the ideas. Also they supplied me with food,
and it was very
pleasant, and we would go on picnics and so on. They had three kids that
were great fun
to play with, and I’d play with them all afternoon and work at night.
26
Weiner:
In the summer?
Feynman:
It was in the summer time, yeah. It was great. I visited them on other
occasions after
that, but I remember that one. There was a guy named Al Schild around,
who was a
mathematician. He was someone with whom I could discuss things, too.
Weiner:
At Cornell?
Feynman:
No, he was at Pittsburgh. So that was a kind of a pleasant time — where
you have
nobody with letters, with telephone calls, with nothing, and you can
work hard, and
think all day long and write all night long, and so on. And then go on a
picnic and relax,
and then get back to work. It was just great. So I accomplished
something in writing it
up.
Weiner:
Here’s another name that you mentioned in papers. I don’t know if it’s
premature to
bring it up -– Ashkin.
Feynman:
That comes a little bit later on another paper. That was very simple.
Ashkin was a group
member, a member of a group I was in at Los Alamos. He was a member of
my group. I
was a leader of a group. And I respected him a great deal for his care
and accuracy, and
when I wrote this paper — it was rather complicated and long — asked him
if he would
look it over for mistakes. So he was very careful and studied it very
hard and corrected
the mistakes that he found, and I appreciated it very much. He’s a very
good man, and I
knew he was, and so I sent it to him, as a friend, to look it over.
Weiner:
I can’t seem to find the article in Reviews of Modern Physics which
would show its date
of submission.
27
Feynman:
OK. Now, somewhere along this time — and I think that I did write this
article before
this important event which I’m about to describe — somewhere along the
line, there are
meetings. See, timing is impossible. Leave me alone. Let me just tell
you about it. I can’t
tell you the exact order. But another thing that was happening was that
there were
meetings of theoretical physicists, of relatively small groups, 20
theoretical physicists
who would get together in different parts of the East. The first meeting
was on Shelter
Island, called the Shelter Island Conference, and there were some
theoretical physicists,
also Pauli. We were supposed to discuss the theoretical physics problems
of the day. The
Shelter Island Conference was my first conference with big men, you
know, and I was
invited there. Bethe was there, Oppenheimer was there, Pauli was there,
Breit was there.
Everybody of any importance in theoretical physics who was still alive
and was around
that part of the country was there. Now, where the money came from and
who —
Oppenheimer had a great deal to do with it, I think, in inviting the
people and organizing
the thing, somewhere, somehow. Money came from the National something.
There was
no National Science Foundation then? National something.
Weiner:
National Research Council, perhaps?
Feynman:
I don’t think so. National Academy of Science, perhaps, or some private
source. It’s
interesting. We had this conference. The first conference I remember in
several ways,
because I’d never been to one like that in peacetime. It wasn’t like the
Physical Society. It
was a small group, and we were put in a very pleasant place, Shelter
Island. It was a nice
place. It was off season, a resort. Incidentally, it was interesting —
the first night there
we were invited (before we got there) to a restaurant on Long Island,
just opposite
Shelter Island. We would eat dinner there, and then we would go to
Shelter Island. We
had been invited by the restaurant owner to have dinner free. The other
men were
escorted on busses, paid for by the city of New York or something,
whereas I for some
reason came from a different direction and went by myself by car. Or I
made a mistake
and didn’t meet the bus. When we got to the restaurant we ate free, and
the man made a
speech thanking us for finishing the war, and telling how it was that
his son was in the
war, and how he read all the things about how hard it was to take
Okinawa and how
difficult it was going to be to take Japan, and how he was worried about
the whole thing,
and how all of a sudden a miracle occurred, that some men had been
working all this
time with a great idea… He gave a great speech to thank us for stopping
the war. And
that’s why he wanted to give us a dinner for this. So somebody thanked
him for the
dinner, and so on. I repeat this because I remind you, we were heroes.
The city thought
it was a good idea to put us in busses and take us out to Shelter Island
as a gift. And the
man thought it was a good… It’s an interesting era. It didn’t last very
long.
28
Weiner:
It’s new to me. I didn’t know that.
Feynman:
Yes. But it’s an interesting era; that the physicists will be in the
city became an important
and exciting thing. I just remembered this, see. So it’s an interesting
side issue. Then we
get to Shelter Island, and we discuss many problems. Now, again, I will
have some
difficulty in remembering which conference was which. We had altogether
at least three,
possibly four, separate conferences. This was definitely the first. In
this conference we
were discussing the various problems, and at this conference (I believe
it was at this first
conference, possibly at a second conference — the confusion in my mind
is very great
about the history, but it’s easy to find out, so just let me keep going)
—
Weiner:
I was going to mention the names of a few of the conferences, if that
would help.
Feynman:
I know the names of the conferences.
Weiner:
Was it Ram Island?
Feynman:
That’s the Shelter Island Conference. That’s the same one. Then there’s
Oldstone, on
the Hudson, Conference, and there’s the Pokono Conference, which is
another place in
the Pocono Mountains, unless Oldstone and Pocono are the same. There
were three
conferences, I remember.
Weiner:
Pocono is ‘48.
Feynman:
OK. Anyhow, at one of the conferences, probably the first conference —
in fact, almost
definitely the first conference — they discussed many of the problems.
Ah yes, it
gradually comes back to me. I can’t figure out which conference! Many of
the problems
29
of the day were discussed: puzzles about what the mu meson is, a
suggestion by Marshak
of an intermediate meson, a meson produced that disintegrates into mu,
which was the
pi-meson. A lot of exciting things were suggested and talked about.
However, in spite of
all this, they ran out of ideas. And they asked me if I wouldn’t explain
my path integral
way of doing quantum mechanics. So I did. Now, I must have been
preparing my
manuscript, or finishing writing the manuscript, because it was all
organized, and if it had
been before this time of working, I would have been so disintegrated (I
hadn’t looked at
anything) that I couldn’t have done it. So this gives us a certain
amount of timing. All
right. And I did OK. I explained it. Of course, it’s hard to pay
attention to some new
ideas, and they didn’t pay much attention I suppose. Then, at this
conference or at a later
one (and it’s an historical question, it’s easy to figure out) some
questions about the
Lamb shift business were suggested or measured or indicated, or somebody
said they
were going to measure it, or it had been indicated that there was some
shift. And
Schwinger claims to have said that he thought it was due to this
electromagnetic energy
shift that had been coming out infinity up to now. And I tried to
estimate it by how
much our damped oscillator shifted in its frequency, but I didn’t
understand the real
problem. Schwinger understood it better than I, and got too low a value
by very many
thousands. But Schwinger said that wasn’t the right way to figure it
out. I remember this.
See, this was up in the meeting that we were talking about it. I would
estimate and say,
“What’s the matter with this? It comes out too small.” He says, “No, no”
— and so on,
and so on. So there was some conference at which we discussed this
question. And also
there was a conference, but I think it was one later, in which it was
indicated that the
magnetic moment of the electron was not right, that the magnetic moment
of the
electron was not exactly the Dirac moment but was slightly corrected,
and that this
possibly was also an electromagnetic correction. Probably at the first
conference, but
possibly at the next conference, this went on. OK? So we were aware of
the problems,
and we were beginning to get, from Rabi’s group, some evidence that the
magnetic
moment was cockeyed, and from somewhere else some evidence that the Lamb
shift
existed. So that’s interesting and important to me, of course. These
three conferences —
as far as I can remember there were three conferences—were to me of very
great interest
and importance, and I was very unhappy when they ended. I asked
Oppenheimer later
why they ended when they ended, and it was, he said, because they were
getting big. It
was very difficult, after you invited somebody, not to invite him again.
But people always
had to be new ones because they were doing something experimental, they
had reports,
something — and it just began to grow. And there were too many insults,
everybody was
insulted, and everybody was writing, “Why didn’t you invite me? Why
didn’t you invite
me?” And he was sick and tired of it, and so he quit this thing. But
this was a very
important conference. There have been many conferences in the world
since, but I’ve
never felt any to be as important as this.
Weiner:
Oppenheimer discussed these conferences in January at the Physical
Society meeting. I
heard a talk on the meson theory after 30 years. And I asked him if I
could tape record
30
it. I did, and his secretary transcribed it, and he’s working with the
transcript. Someday
we’ll get it. He mentions it in sequence, you see. It’s a little
clarified. He should know.
Feynman:
Yes, he’ll know which was which.
Weiner:
There was one — the Pocono Conference —
Feynman:
That was a later conference.
Weiner:
‘48, I know that.
Feynman:
Yeah, but there’s more that happens in between. OK?
Weiner:
I just wanted to use that as a cut-off.
Feynman:
I’ll get there, but I’ve still got important things to say in between —
things that
happened in between.
Weiner:
Yeah, I know, it’s the most important part.
Feynman:
By the way, by now I’m living in a much more comfortable place. I had
been invited to
live at the Telluride House at Cornell, which is a group of boys that
have been specially
selected because of their scholarship, because of their cleverness or
whatever it is, to be
given free board and lodging and so on, because of their brains. They
live at this house,
and they like to have a faculty member live there too each year, and
they select different
31
ones, and I was living there. And this was very convenient. The meals
were available and
everything was available, and you didn’t have to worry about all that. I
could work in my
room, or play with the guys, or work on the place; so it was very good.
It’s there that I
did the fundamental work. At any rate, around this time the Lamb shift
measurement
came out, probably at one of the conferences, maybe at the Oldstone
Conference,
maybe at the Shelter Island Conference — 1000 megacycles, roughly, of
shift. And
people were worrying about it, and I was doing my old-fashioned quantum
electromagnetics, backward, upside down, with path integrals and so on.
And Bethe
began to work on it. (This is like another lecture, but I’ll repeat
myself.) Bethe’s
characteristic is to try to get a number. You try to understand any
number that’s made —
or at least, it was his method in those days. At these conferences we
also discussed
meson problems, but I’m not going to talk about that now.
Weiner:
Not at the moment, but I’d like to ask you about it later. I’m sorry, I
don’t understand
what you said about Bethe.
Feynman:
Bethe characteristically was always very practical. If a number is
measured that the theory
can’t get at, that’s the challenge of the theory. He doesn’t think like
I used to. I think a
little bit more philosophically, more like Einstein, about the general
problem, you know?
How are we going to solve the general problem? What concepts are
necessary? Do we
need to understand new concepts of space? Tat-tat-tat-tat. With Bethe
it’s the other way
around, from the other end. You’ve got a measurement, you’ve got a
number — where
does that number come from? See? Very practical, down to earth, from the
other end
really. And so, when he got the number for the Lamb shift, he began to
try to figure a
way of getting it. And I was in his home at a party, and he was not
there. He had been
suddenly called away for a while to do some consulting work for GE, when
he had
already arranged a party. I was at his home, and at his home I got a
telephone call from
him—he called me at his house — and he said to me that he understands
the Lamb
shift. He explained the idea about the mass renormalization or
something—I can’t
remember what he explained. I didn’t follow it very well. And he said he
got 1000
megacycles, and he was very excited, wanted to talk about it. I didn’t
understand it too
well, but I realized from his excitement it was something important, so
I said the
appropriate things that somebody says when they don’t understand what
you said but
they know that what you just told them is important. Then he came back.
And he gave a
lecture at Cornell in which he explained in detail how to compute the
Lamb shift. He
invented the idea, or he worked out the idea of calculating the shift in
the level, noticing
several things: for instance, that a good deal of the shift would be due
to the fact that an
electron, even if it’s free, has its energy changed because its mass is
changed by its self-
energy. We certainly don’t want to include that in the shift. We must
consider the
difference of the S, the level in the S state and in the P state. And
the energy of the
32
electron is the same in both. You have to subtract that, so he got rid
of that. Then
there’s a kinetic energy difference because the mass has changed in the
formula for
kinetic energy, momentum squared over 2M, and if the mass is changed by
the self-
energy, that term will be changed. But that was the same in both levels,
and he could
subtract that. Then finally he gets to a thing which was not the same,
which was not the
same in the two levels. Then taking the difference, he found that the
thing diverged
logarithmically when you did integral over all the frequencies of the
virtual photons
involved. You got a logarithm integral from some minimum energy which is
of the order
of the binding energy of hydrogen, about one Rydberg up to infinity. And
he guessed
that, just like the self-energy of the electron which diverges
quadratically if you do it non-
relativistically, but converges logarithmically if you do it
relativistically—that his thing,
which was diverging logarithmically when he did it non-relativistically
would, when he
did it relativistically, converge. Therefore the upper limit should be
about Mc2, because
he was only calculating non-relativistically. So when he put Mc2 in the
numerator and
Rydberg in the denominator, he got about 1000 megacycles. So he knew he
was on the
right track. The only problem remained as to how to deal with the
relativistic end exactly
— exactly what you do with the upper limit, not just cut it off
arbitrarily — you get a
rough estimate. So it was a relativistic problem. In this lecture he
said that you have to
make so many subtractions of such large terms, really infinite terms,
that it’s very
confusing at times exactly what to subtract from what. And he thought
that if there were
any way whatever to make the theory finite, even though it didn’t agree
with the
experiments, some artificial way of cutting off electrodynamics which
was relativistically
invariant, then we could cut all these things that were integrately
finite, you could
subtract them exactly, and it would be very much simpler. Then you could
do the
relativistic end without ambiguity. Otherwise it’s very confusing. So I
came down after
the lecture and said, “I can do that. I can make a correction in
electrodynamics that
makes it finite, even if it doesn’t agree with the experiment. But I can
do that, so we can
do all the subtracting.” He said, “All right. Fine. How?” I said, “I’ll
show you in the
morning.” So I went home, and I looked over the things I had. See, I had
this
tremendous package of different ways of doing things and cutting off and
everything, all
aimed at half advanced and half retarded method.
Weiner:
This dated from the Princeton —?
Feynman:
Right. I decided, for this problem that I’ll just use the standard
electrodynamics to retard
it, but put some of my inventions in, various methods of cutting off
electrodynamics,
representing everything by path integrals, and then cutting the
functions in a
relativistically invariant way. I knew how to do things to
electrodynamics that would
leave it relativistically invariant, because I wasn’t using a
Hamiltonian way but the path
integral way of expressing it, and then it was easy to correct it so you
didn’t destroy
33
relativity. So I made the corrections. I tried to translate it back into
the language that
other people use. And then I went in, the next day. I said, “Tell me how
to compute the
self-energy of the electron and I’ll show you how to correct it, so
you’ll get a finite
answer.” It’s interesting to notice that at this time I still didn’t
know how to compute the
self-energy of an electron. There’s a point to doing too much esoteric
work. I didn’t
know how people computed the self-energy of an electron, which is quite
stupid. It’s a
simple second note of perturbation theory. This really shows you that I
had gone too far
on my own. I’d gotten so far I hadn’t looked at simple problems. He
showed me how
you calculate the self-energy of an electron, and I showed him what the
correction ought
to be. I tried to translate my principles into the other language that
he was explaining this
thing in. And we computed it, and it diverged now not logarithmically
but as a 6th power
of the upper limit, which is much worse, and I was sure it was supposed
to converge,
you see, so I was quite offended. Then I went home and I worried about
it and I worried
about it — I don’t know how long, days, a couple of days, a week or
whatever it was.
And I couldn’t see anything wrong physically with what I was doing. It
must converge; it
just had to converge — at least physically. There was something wrong
with it. So then I
taught myself how to compute the self-energy, and I did it over again,
without him, on a
piece of paper, and it did converge. And neither of us has ever figured
it out. In fact, he
even forgets the situation. But I never could figure out what we did on
the blackboard,
or what happened that made it diverge, because I changed nothing. I
didn’t change
anything; I just adhered to the same rule and the same idea. But it
converged. OK. Now
I was on the track. Now I could calculate.
Weiner:
You felt sure enough of it to try it over again, to make it come out
somehow?
Feynman:
Well, I wasn’t sure at the moment, but I went back and thought about it
and thought
about it, and couldn’t get out. I mean, you think about it — you say,
“Why doesn’t it
work?” And you can’t see any reason why it doesn’t. You keep logically
arguing this way,
that way, physically. I can’t remember the reasoning. But the more I
thought about it, the
more clearly it got that it had to work. And so, then I finally did
teach myself how to
calculate the self-energy, what you’re supposed to do, and when I did it
making the new
modification I was proposing it worked. I mean the result was a
converging integral, as I
had expected. So that’s what the situation was. Well, then I was
launched. I mean, that
was all I had to do. Now I could calculate the difference in energy in a
hydrogen atom,
the effects of hydrogen atoms, all the effects of electrodynamics, by
the method of first
cutting it off, and then making the subtractions, as suggested by Bethe
— that is, re-
expressing everything in terms of the experimental mass of an electron,
seeing that the
mass of an electron is theoretical mass plus a correction to
electrodynamics, the
correction being finite in my false electrodynamics. Right? So the
experimental mass is
written, and the theoretical mass puts a correction. The theoretical
mass is not observed,
34
but the experimental mass is. Then when you calculate anything else,
like the energy
levels of hydrogen, you express all the answers in the experimental mass
of an electron.
The mass of an electron is its energy when it’s not in an atom, in empty
space, and you
compute the energy in the atom, and express it in terms of the mass,
that you
experimentally would measure, which is the way you always do express the
answers.
Then, when you do it that way, as Bethe expected, the answers were
finite. That is to say,
depending on my cut-off — I had some kind of a cut-off limit, small
distance
somewhere, to keep things finite. But when I expressed the answers in
terms of the
experimental mass, if I kept the experimental mass fixed as I took the
limit, as the cut-off
went to zero size, the answers would have a definite limit. And that
definite limit was the
Lamb shift, for instance, for the Lamb experiment, and for other
experiments. With one
complication, having to do with polarization of a vacuum, which I’ll
come to, but you
seem to be nervous about the tape, which is making me nervous.
Weiner:
It’s all right now.
Feynman:
Anyway, I got all the formulas. I got the formulas that Bethe got, in
the non-relativistic
end, and I got the Lamb shift figured out, and I found out that the
magnetic moment of
an electron was shifted. Schwinger had already done this. I noticed it
was shifted by 1
over e2 over 2 pi, in proportion. E2 over hc, and 1 over 2 pi. And I got
the same result.
Then, I went to a meeting in New York. Schwinger was there, and he was a
great hero,
because he’d done all this stuff. He was giving a paper on the subject
and said that he
had some difficulties — that with the electron free, he got e2 over 2 pi
for the shift, but
with an electron in the atom, it seemed that the answer was two-thirds
as much, or one-
third as much. I can’t remember what. The experiments of Lamb and so on
showed that
it was e2 over 2 pi and, furthermore, he can’t understand why it should
be two-thirds as
much in an atom. So he was having some difficulty as he mentioned in his
talk. So I got
up and said, “I would like to say that I computed the same thing, and I
agree with
Professor Schwinger in all his results, but that the magnetic moment of
the electron in
the atom is also e2 over 2 pi, and there is really no difficulty. If you
go back and fiddle
around some more, you’ll see that it’s the same magnetic moment in the
atom and out of
the atom.” I really wasn’t trying to show off, I was trying to tell him
that there’s no
problem there, that it’ll come out right, because I had done the same
things that he had
done. So I was trying to say that it would come out right. Many people
who had never
heard of me before had heard of Schwinger before but as I try to remind
you (I don’t
know if I told you this, because I forget who I talk to) Schwinger was
well known. He
had done many great things before the War in deuteron theory, with
polarized helium,
with scattering of neutrons from helium to produce polarized neutrons,
and other work.
I knew of Schwinger, he didn’t know of me. Many people knew of Schwinger
that didn’t
35
know of me. So I’ve heard from people that it sounded very funny to
them. The great
Schwinger was talking and some little squirt gets up, “I did it too,
Daddy, and I don’t
think you’re in trouble at all. Everything’s going to be all right.” You
know?
Weiner:
Was this the first you had heard of his work?
Feynman:
No, not of his work in electrons.
Weiner:
I mean this paper.
Feynman:
No, I had heard that he got e2 over 2 pi. When I got to the meeting, I
was surprised that
he got another value in the atom. I was trying to tell him he’s right,
it’s OK; it’s 2 pi,
because I got the same result. That’s really what I was doing: “See, I
caught up with you,
but I see it in the atom and it’s OK.” What I was trying to tell him was
that there’s no
difficulty.
Weiner:
That was a Physical Society meeting in New York?
Feynman:
Yes, it was a Physical Society meeting. OK. Then I did more problems and
more
problems, and kept working with it, and so on. There was a problem which
kept
bothering me, which is called polarization of the vacuum, where a field
produces a pair,
and a pair annihilates again producing a new field, which in my diagrams
would have
meant the closed loop. Oh, I had tried to figure out. See, all my
theories were non-
relativistic theories of matter, because I was using path integrals. But
I just had to
translate them, operator by operator, quantity by quantity, by trial and
error. Everything I
did was by trial and error. I would guess from the forms of the
expressions. Like there
would be a momentum, and I would guess momentum over mass as a velocity;
I’d guess
that’s the velocity operator alpha (Dirac, see?). And I would rewrite
expressions by a
kind of guesswork. Then I would compare them to what I would get by the
more
tedious methods and old fashioned methods, or look them up, you see. And
so I
gradually developed a way of knowing what the right formulas were,
relativistically. In
36
the process, however, the problem of what to do with the pairs always
bothered me. I
never did understand that negative energy stuff. And I had some trouble.
So I began to
say, I can’t do the pairs this way, it’s too confusing to me. And I
remembered Wheeler’s
old idea about the electrons going backwards. So I simply made a project
— imagine
what would happen if my space time trajectories would be like the letter
N in time; they
would back up for a while, and then go forward again, which is famously
described in
one of the papers later. And I found that I got the right formula for
the positron end of
the Dirac cases. You see, when you have to sum over some intermediate
state, some with
just electrons, some with pair productions, the ones with pair
productions seemed to
come right if I let this backwards path go, within a sign. Then I made
empirical rules
about the sign by doing more and more complicated problems. You must use
a minus
sign for each reversal or something, you see. So I finally found it
wasn’t the number of
corners that determined the sign, but the number of back sections, you
see, or some
such thing. And I gradually developed empirical systems for computing
everything, so
that I knew the rules for myself. And I would always get in the end what
everybody else
was getting, and I knew what I was doing. What I was doing was
presumably OK.
Weiner:
Did you write these down, these rules?
Feynman:
No, I was working with them, and I had them — yes. I was trying to write
them down. I
would get to a point and say, “With the sign plus or minus…,” and then
later, “The sign
is equal to the number of something or other.” Then it wouldn’t work.
Then I would try
again. So essentially I was discovering the right rules by a kind of cut
and try scheme,
which I’ve used ever since. At any rate, though, in this view I had
about electrons going
backwards in time, the idea of a pair production followed by
annihilation was a closed
loop. It was a ring. The electron went around, forwards and backwards in
time. And I
felt that it may not exist. See, in Wheeler’s original idea about
electrons and positrons
being back sections of the world lines, the question of whether there
was a world line all
by itself in a ring in space was opened. I was confused by it. One
possibility was, it didn’t
exist. It gave me infinity. I didn’t know how to get rid of it. So
that’s a certain stage I was
in. I could do everything else except the polarization of the vacuum was
infinite. That
bothered me. I hadn’t got that under control when I went to the meeting
in Pocono. So
that tells you how I was at the meeting in Pocono. I remember the exact
situation here.
That was historically, to me, of some interest, and I can describe that
if you want.
Weiner:
Yes, please.
37
Feynman:
This meeting at Pocono was very exciting, because there Schwinger was
going to tell
how he did his things, and I was supposed to tell how I did mine. I was
very nervous and
didn’t sleep well at all. I mean, at many of these meetings I was
nervous, I don’t know
why, but I was very nervous at this meeting, couldn’t sleep. It was very
exciting. I would
talk to Schwinger at the meeting, and we would compare notes, like what
do you get for
the radiation with scattering, compared—? We agreed, you know. This term
comes from
here and that term comes from there. It was very interesting about that
meeting: nobody
really understood either of us, and we didn’t understand what the other
guy did exactly
— how he did it, rather, how he did it. But we would agree on the
answer. We could talk
to each other. “What did you get for this? What kind of term is that?”
“Like this,” and
you’d start to describe the physical idea that’s involved in producing
this term. “Oh, well,
I got this — did you include that?” And so on, you know. We could talk
back and forth.
Weiner:
Was this private, two man?
Feynman:
Private, two man stuff, was great, we were fine. When he went to explain
his stuff, he
had great difficulty. Every once in a while he would say, “Well, let’s
look at it physically.”
As soon as he would say that, the wolves were out, and it was terrible.
He had great
difficulty explaining, and people didn’t understand it, and they were
getting more and
more tired. Also, the thing that I would best characterize this by —
just by how it looks
to a young man in front of all these great minds — is a thing that I do
also now, I
suppose, when I’m in this opposite position: You don’t trust that the
young fellow really
knows what he’s doing. So you want to make sure that he does. He has to
explain
everything to you, and in your own language.
Weiner:
You’ve got to test them.
Feynman:
Huh? You don’t trust them; you’ve got to test them. He’s got to explain
everything to
you, and in your language, not in his. You don’t have the energy to
follow the other way,
see. And therefore, the difference — the reason why people didn’t
understand him, and
the reason they didn’t understand me, and the reason we could talk to
each other and
make a great thing of it, was that I simply assumed that he knew what he
was doing, and
if he said that this was where it came and this was what came out, this
is what came out.
When I would say this was that, he didn’t assume that this jerk maybe
doesn’t know
38
what he’s doing, he would simply say he believed, when I’d say this
comes from here,
this comes from here. If we don’t agree with each other, then we’d try
to figure out why,
and not assume the other guy is making some kind of a grand error. OK.
In other words,
we don’t assume the other man is making some kind of a gross mistake.
Yes? OK.
Anyhow, as a result of this, Bethe said to me, “You’d better explain
this thing
mathematically and not physically” — he said in conversation, “because
look how much
trouble Schwinger has every time he says anything physical.” One of the
troubles was
that all my thinking was physical, and as I told you, I did everything
by cut and try. So I
didn’t have a mathematical scheme. But I had recently discovered a
single mathematical
expression, which, if analyzed, all the diagrams and all the rules would
come out of. This
expression involved, however, a new branch of mathematics that I’d had
to invent,
which was called ordered operators. And the only way I knew that the
formula was right
was, when I worked it out it gave the right answers. OK? So I did have a
mathematical
scheme. It was purely mathematical. But I couldn’t substantiate it from
the other
mathematical schemes known, you know? I couldn’t deduce it. But I knew
it was right.
So I tried mistakenly — I mean it was bad pedagogy so it’s nobody’s
fault but my own
— to say: “This is a mathematical formula which I will now show you
produces all the
results of quantum electrodynamics.” “Where does the formula come from?”
“Never
mind where the formula came from, it works. It’s the right formula.”
“How do you
know it’s right?” “Because it gives all the right answers.” “How do we
know it gives the
right answers?” “Well, I’ll show you. I’ll do one problem after another.
I’ll show you how
the formula works.” “All right.” So I’d start to explain the meaning of
the symbols by
doing an example, like the self-energy of an electron. They would get
bored, because
when you go into detail on any particular problem, you’re involved in
little details, and
Bethe said, “Never mind that, explain to us how it works,” and so on.
OK? “What made
you think the formula was right in the first place?” OK. So then I had
to go with
physical ideas. And then I was much deeper in the soup, because I’d come
at them in the
wrong order, and everything was chaotic. I started to explain about path
integrals and all
this stuff. I had discovered a number of tricks. For example, there’s a
small technical
trick — there’s a thing called the exclusion principle, which says that
you can’t have two
particles in the same state and all this kind of stuff. It turns out you
don’t have to pay
any attention to that in the perturbation theory in the intermediate
states. I had
discovered that by empirical rules. If you don’t pay any attention, you
get the right
answer anyway, and it’s much easier, and if you pay attention you’ve got
so much
thinking about the cases and so on. So I’d try to do something, and they
would say,
“What about the exclusion principle?” And I would say — like Teller
would say, “What
about the exclusion principle?” And I would say, “It doesn’t make any
difference in
intermediate states.” Teller would say, “How do you know?” I’d say, “I
know, I worked
from a —” He’d say, “How could it be?” You see? I’d say, I know, and I’d
get a lot of
things they don’t believe. “How could it be?” They would argue against
it as
fundamentally wrong because of this and this example. I would try to
argue, and then we
would finally settle down, and people would say, “Well, we’ll discuss it
later” — you
know that kind of trouble. Also, at the beginning when I said I would
deal with the
electrons, the single electrons — I was thinking of this backwards in
time business, like a
39
single electron, the Schrodinger equation, goes backwards in time —
Dirac said, “Is it
unitary?” I said, “I’ll explain it to you, you can see how it works, and
then you can tell me
if it’s unitary.” I didn’t even know what that meant (is it “unitary”).
So I went a little
further. You know, we’d get into these arguments. Then Dirac would come
up, you
know, “Is it unitary?” So finally I said: “Is what unitary?” He said,
“The matrix which
carries you from the present position to the future position.” I said,
“I haven’t got any
matrix which carries me from the present position to the future
position, I go forwards
and backwards and forwards in time. So I don’t know.” You see, each one
had a kind of
a thing in his head, like I know now what it is. Dirac had proven
somewhere that since
quantum mechanics must be a unitary operator, in a certain sense, there
is no unitary way
of dealing with an electron, with a single electron. But, because he had
been thinking
about progressing only forward in time, he couldn’t think of going
forward and
backward, and here’s this theorem, and he wants to know what’s the
matter with this
theorem, see? And each guy had an axe of this kind, something they’d
proved is
impossible, and I’m saying you can go ahead and do it. But there was
always one
gimmick in my stuff, one extra complication that they weren’t noticing
or something like
that. So it was very difficult.
Weiner:
And Bohr was at this meeting?
Feynman:
Bohr was at this meeting and somewhere, after I’d tried and tried and I
talked about
trajectories, then I’d swing back — I was forced back all the time to
explain. Finally I go
back to the idea of an amplitude for each path; that quantum mechanics
can be
described by the amplitude for each path, and after that Bohr got up and
he said,
“Already in l9” — something, 1924, ‘25, or something –- “we know that
the classical
idea of the trajectory in a path is not a legitimate idea in quantum
mechanics” and so on.
In other words, he’s telling me about the uncertainty principle, you
see, and so on. And
when I hear this, this was the least discouraging of the criticisms,
because it was patently
clear that there was no communication, as you like to say. Because he’d
tell me that I
don’t know the uncertainty principle, and I’m not doing quantum
mechanics right. Well,
I know I’m doing quantum mechanics right, so there wasn’t any fear or
anything. I mean,
it was no trouble. It’s just that he didn’t understand at all. And I
simply got a feeling of
resignation. It’s very simple, I’ll have to publish this and so on, let
them read it and study
it, because it’s right. I wasn’t unhappy from that, you understand me?
From Bohr’s
criticism.
Weiner:
Was there antagonism in this criticism?
40
Feynman:
No. No, only the usual personalities. I mean, Teller, full of
excitement, and Dirac
mumbling “Is it unitary?” No, there was no trouble. It wasn’t
antagonism. But to tell a
guy that he doesn’t know quantum mechanics is to say, you know — It
didn’t make me
angry; it just made me realize he didn’t know what I was talking about.
And it was
hopeless to try to explain it further. And I said so. I gave up. I gave
up completely, and I
simply decided to publish it, because see, I knew it was OK. First of
all, I had the
confirmation with Schwinger. We’d sit there and we’d get the right
answers, you know.
So that was just before the meeting broke up for a little temporary
rest, and Bohr came
up to me —
Weiner:
How long did the meeting last, by the way?
Feynman:
I don’t know maybe an afternoon. And Bohr came up and apologized. His
son had told
him that he didn’t understand it, that I really was consonant with the
principles of
quantum mechanics. But I said, “It’s not necessary to apologize,” — you
know,
something like that. After that, I don’t know what I did. I didn’t do
any more, but just
decided to publish it. There is one little thing, though, that’s
interesting, that also added
to the complications. When I got up to talk, I started out by saying, “I
can do everything
but I can’t do the closed loops, the self-energy of the electron, I mean
the vacuum
polarization.” Schwinger got up and said, “I can do everything,
including the vacuum
polarization.” And he worked something out, and he got a term which
looked like
vacuum polarization. He had to subtract, and it left the vacuum
polarization. It later
came out that he had not done the vacuum polarization, but he had left
it out — he
didn’t even notice the term — and he had another term that he’d been
doing, and was
doing it wrong. And it looked like a vacuum polarization correction, the
error, which you
could get rid of by saying he had vacuum polarization. He got rid of it.
Well, I was doing
it more right, and didn’t have any vacuum polarization term at all, and
knew it was
missing, and said it was missing — whereas, he thought he had it and
included it and got
it right. But neither of us knew how to do it. But we didn’t know it. He
said he did. And
I said I didn’t do it. So one of the criticisms they gave was, “Why
should we bother with
this, you haven’t done the vacuum polarization yet. And the other thing
is all done.” So
you see, that was another, a small thing. I’m just saying it wasn’t
something that bothered
me. It didn’t bother me. I’m just telling the difficulties that people
have in paying
attention to me. They thought I hadn’t as much as he had — actually, I
happened to
have more but I didn’t know it — and so on. I could describe the
specific terms, but one
time a few weeks later, when I was visiting MIT, Schwinger called me up
and said,
“According to what I understood from what we were discussing, the terms
which you
have included give no vacuum polarization term, and that you have this
extra thing. Well,
41
now I found this extra thing. But now what bothers me is that the terms
which I thought
I had, which were the same as yours — I have a correction, it looks like
a charge
correction from those terms, and you said you had none. How did you
handle them?” So
I had to discuss terms on the telephone. We could do it. And I explained
to him which
terms would cancel what, and he hadn’t noticed those. “Oh,” he said, “I
forgot to put
those in.” So he put them in, corrected the thing, and got the same
result. So, you see,
we understood each other. We corrected each other. You know, we each
fixed the other
up, by pointing things out to each other at the time. So we were
cooperating very well.
But it was hard for us to know exactly what we were doing, and we would
sometimes
misrepresent the situation a little bit.
Weiner:
You could even talk about this on the phone?
Feynman:
Even on the phone we could identify the terms, I remember, because we
understood
what we were doing. We could visualize. I would say, “The term I’m
talking about is
canceled by a term which comes from a photon which is first emitted
before interaction
with the nuclear potential, is first emitted and then absorbed before
the interaction with
the nuclear potential.” And he’d say, “But that’s just a mass
correction.” I’d say, “No,
because of the fact, the mass correction is when there’s a free
particle, and because of
the fact that a potential is going to act soon, there’s a slight
correction near the end point
of the integral.” “Oh, yeah!” You know? So it would go something like
that. We could
talk on the telephone to each other. We understood each other very well.
Weiner:
This was after the Pocono Conference, this particular phone
conversation?
Feynman:
A little bit, yet. Yeah. You want more about the Pocono Conference, or
shall I just
continue this whole subject a little further?
Weiner:
Whatever you feel is logical.
Feynman:
All right, I’ll just finish the subject. I made calculations — had one
error in it. A
42
calculation I made of the Lamb shift had an error in it, and I didn’t
notice it. It was very
subtle, having to do with longitudinal waves and so on. At the same
time, in a much
more pedestrian, hard-working way, following the logic of Bethe and
Weisskopf, who
also suggested the same thing as Bethe somehow — I don’t know what the
Bethe-
Weisskopf historical relation is (who did what first) — Bethe would tell
me everything
and then say that Weisskopf did something, too, of the same logic as
Bethe, and I don’t
know the situation. But anyway, Weisskopf also computed the Lamb shift
by following
the logic of Bethe, or Bethe and Weisskopf, and calculating also in a
much more
pedestrian, careful, old-fashioned way, but with very accurate thinking.
He did that with
a man named French, and he got a different answer than I did, and he
called me up on
the telephone to tell me about the difference, and the formula he got
compared to my
formula. I didn’t see the difference. I was so sure that his was so
complicated and that he
must have made a mistake, that I didn’t pay enough attention to the
possibility that I was
making a mistake. And so for a long time, they hesitated to publish
their results, because
my method was so much more efficient, and it was so much easier to get
to the answer,
that they were sure that they had made an error. They kept checking and
checking and
checking, and delayed their publication, which made me unhappy, because
they were
right.
Weiner:
Meanwhile, had you published?
Feynman:
Now I’m publishing, during this period. Yes, because I know I’m on the
right track. I
first have to explain the method of cutting off the electrodynamics. So
I wrote a paper to
explain a method of cutting off electrodynamics in classical
electrodynamics, so that the
physics of the method was clear.
Weiner:
Just the relativistic cut-off —
Feynman:
In classical electrodynamics, right. Then it was suggested by Rabi,
somewhere in one of
these meetings, that the thing for me to do was not wait until I got
everything perfect,
but to put out something explaining what I’m doing. So that’s why I put
out the classical
and quantum — I really put them out almost together. They were within a
few — they
can’t be far apart. They mean to be together. It’s just a technical
thing of a typist or
something that separates them.
43
Weiner:
One of them ended up at page 946 of Physical Review; the next one starts
at page 1430.
(crosstalk)
Feynman:
OK. Anyway, “A Relativistic Cut-off for Quantum Electrodynamics” came
next, and
that described my idea of how to make the calculation, but with more
pedestrian
methods, none of the clever tricks of the backwards moving electron — I
mean, I don’t
think that’s in there yet. I don’t remember. No, it was in there. But
not everything, not
the smooth methods of doing the integrals, the better notation for
everything, and so on.
Since I’m doing so many problems, I invent notations; I invent improved
techniques and
so on. Then I publish this big paper called “Space-Time Approach to
Quantum
Electrodynamics.” The other paper’s already had the information, but
this paper had it
much better organized. No, I did that one together with a thing called
“The Positron
Theory,” “Theory of Positrons,” because that’s part of it, in order to
talk about the
backwards moving tracks. Then the “Space-Time Approach” — those really
went
together. I published those, with the most efficient methods of
calculation that I knew
by this time, which include this business of very much improved
techniques for writing
and calculating quantities involved. All the rest was just improvement
in technique, you
see.
Weiner:
Now, in between, I think, you have a paper with Wheeler, Reviews of
Modern Physics;
the paper is “Classical Electrodynamics in Terms of Direct Interparticle
Action.”
Feynman:
That was written by Wheeler, and was done essentially independently. We
worked
together.
Weiner:
Oh, that’s the one where you talked about work started by you earlier
and so forth.
Feynman:
Yes. I think I told you — if I didn’t, I’ll say it again —
Weiner:
Please do, that way it will be clearer.
44
Feynman:
Wheeler suggested that I write up our work. Did I tell you this stuff?
When we did the
work together, way back in Princeton, I wrote about the half advanced
and half retarded
potentials in classical electrodynamics. He asked me to give this
lecture, you remember.
He also asked me to write up the work, and said, “It shouldn’t take more
than 20 pages.
Write it nice and neat.” I couldn’t do it in less than 27 pages. I wrote
a 27 page
exposition. He looked at it, and thought about it, and didn’t like the
way it was written,
and said the work was much more important, and should be written in much
more
detail. And he started to work on the writing. It got bigger and bigger
and bigger. (I think
I said this.) And then he had these sorts of semi-grandiose ideas. He’s
going to write a
series of five papers, of which this is No. 4, a critique of all of
classical and quantum
physics, or some such thing. And I was not in philosophical favor with
the spirit of this,
you see? So when I was writing my relativistic cut-offs and so on, in
the “Relativistic
Cut-off for Classical Electrodynamics,” I inserted the theory of half
advanced and half
retarded potentials in there, written in as neat and short a way as I
could, as the first
publication. I mean, my publication of it is in there, hidden in that
paper in which I
expound the theory. And that’s all that’s necessary. It’s all been
condensed by this time.
Of course, over the years I’ve thought of the neatest way of expressing
it. So I had it
reduced to a very small kernel, which I shoveled into there. And I feel
that that’s my
publication of that theory, whereas he was in the meantime writing this
long thing. It
would be interesting. I think I could find somewhere the manuscript of
27 pages, of the
original article that I would have presented, if he hadn’t said not to.
It’s kind of
interesting.
Weiner:
It would be good to compare —
Feynman:
It would be interesting to see how it was written. Anyway, so he was
publishing that, and
I was just putting my OK to it, or hardly knew it was happening. So I
was not involved
in that any more.
Weiner:
But these other two, the pair of papers you mentioned, “The Theory of
Positrons” and
the big paper, “Space-Time Approach to Quantum Electrodynamics” — these
were
published in 1949?
Feynman:
45
Yes. There are some delays. See, it took me a long time to write them.
It took me an
awfully long time to prepare them. They were prepared a considerable
time after I knew
the technical methods.
Weiner:
Whom were you discussing it with? Dyson mentions a private communication
with you.
No, he doesn’t call it back. He says “of work by Feynman as yet
unpublished.”
Feynman:
Yeah, I was sending things to Dyson.
Weiner:
How did that come about?
Feynman:
Well, Dyson was at Cornell, and we had had many discussions, and I had
been proposing
these methods to everybody who was doing any problem in electrodynamics.
There were
several of Bethe’s students trying to work things out, and I was showing
them how to do
this technique and this method. By this time I had developed the
technique. So Dyson
was there and he knew what I was doing. But at that time, I had not
proved in any way
its relationship to the standard electrodynamics — in other words, what
was wanted by
many people would have been this. Start with the standard formulation of
quantum
electrodynamics, with operators, creation and annihilation operators and
all kinds of
theoretic things, and you show that as a consequence of that, these
rules and these
formulas of mine were right. Then you could be perfectly satisfied.
There was only one
trouble. The author of the formulas, namely myself, didn’t know anything
about creation
and annihilation operators and all this correct formulation of
electrodynamics, because
he never learned it. He was therefore considerably too impatient to
learn all that stuff
which he’d done all this work to avoid, you see, in order to prove to
people who
happened to have learned that, that they don’t need it, that the rules
are easier, and I felt
very strongly that everything was simpler than the regular formulation,
because even
Schwinger was working things out and would write a whole lot of stuff
before he got to
a point that I could write down immediately with my diagrams.
Weiner:
Now, I’m sorry to interrupt, but the diagrams — somewhere along the line
we got you
into the midst of using them without telling when you first wrote them,
or if you did I
don’t remember.
46
Feynman:
I can’t tell you when I first wrote them. I can’t tell you when I first
wrote them, because
I had been doing it — I’d have to look through papers to find the piece
of paper which
has one on. It would be a very interesting and amusing problem. I had
been doing these
path integral ways of doing electrodynamics for so long, and thinking
about it so long, I
was visualizing in space and time these things, and had worked out
perturbation
expressions many times, on many pieces of paper. And I probably made
diagrams to
help me think about it. And I finally didn’t do half advanced and half
retarded, but the
full retarded and all that stuff. It was probably not any specific
invention but just a sort
of shorthand with which I was helping myself think, which gradually
developed into
specific rules for some diagrams. I think. I can’t tell you.
Weiner:
For helping you think physically? In other words, you were seeing in
physical —
Feynman:
No, mathematical expressions. Mathematical expressions. A diagram to
help write down
the mathematical expressions.
Weiner:
And by making a line on a piece of paper, you could write the
mathematical —
Feynman:
— Yes — well, I was seeing something in space and time.
Weiner:
That’s what I was getting at.
Feynman:
Yes. I was seeing something in space and time. There were quantities
associated with
points in space and time, and I would see electrons going along,
scattered at this point,
then it goes over here, scatters at this point, so I’d make little
pictures of it going. That’s
what those things were. Emits a photon, the photon goes over here —
Weiner:
47
— That’s what I was getting at, you’d say something physical in —
Feynman:
— yeah, semi-physical, associated with the mathematics, yeah.
(crosstalk)
Weiner:
Wasn’t this sort of a natural —
Feynman:
It was natural to me. Now, I can’t tell — we’d have to look back over it
— when such
drawings began. I think they gradually evolved. I think you’ll find very
old pictures,
similar but not as clean as the final diagrams, and they gradually
evolved into a kind of
shorthand of diagrams. I think.
Weiner:
I think the important thing here might be, when they began to become
very important to
the work, rather than just an accompaniment —
Feynman:
Well, when I was doing more and more problems. It was just when I was
doing these
many problems. Instead of thinking so abstractly, then I would use them
more and
more. And there was a time, definitely, when I was at this Telluride
House at Cornell,
and I was working on the self-energy of the electron, and I was making a
lot of these
pictures to visualize the various terms, and thinking about the various
terms, that a
moment occurred — I remember distinctly — when I looked at these, and
they looked
very funny to me. They were funny-looking pictures. And I did think
consciously:
“Wouldn’t it be funny if this really turns out to be useful, and the
Physical Review would
be all full of these funny-looking pictures? It would look very
amusing.” And it turned
out that in fact, it came out. But I was conscious at the moment that it
might be useful,
and if it were it would be very amusing to see these funny-looking
pictures in the
Physical Review.
Weiner:
Talking about the important work in this period, when did you get the
sense that you
really had something?
Feynman:
48
Well, I knew when I got Schwinger’s formulas and results, like e2 over 2
pi and so on,
that everything was all right. If I got the energy to come out finite,
and then when I
calculated the Lamb shift I got the right results, the same as Bethe,
and I got the
magnetic moment like Schwinger, everything was all right. All I had was
the damn
vacuum polarization. And finally Bethe told me what to do about that. He
told me of a
suggestion either made by him or by Pauli — I’m not very good at
references, but Bethe
told me of a suggestion, probably due to Pauli, or maybe by Bethe and
Pauli — on how
to straighten out the vacuum polarization thing, and I did that. And
that straightened
that out. And then there were no more problems. It was only technical
invention. But
you may ask, when did I think that my inventions were highly efficient?
That was
interesting, because — well, there were several other things. I have a
lot of other things
to tell you. There were two things I have to describe. They go together,
so I can describe
them together. The first is, using these diagrams and these rules, I had
only done
electrodynamics. In the meantime, the world is full of meson theory.
Meson theory in
those days was made out of analogy electrodynamics. It still is. By
Yukawa. If the
analogy was good, one of the troubles was that it had all the
difficulties of
electrodynamics. It gave infinities, you couldn’t make good
calculations. Now, we got
electrodynamics cured, obviously the thing to do is to start figuring
things out according
to Yukawa’s theory, with the new way of doing field theory or
electrodynamics, but by
analogy. But as usual, I paid no attention to the literature and never
knew anything about
what was going on. But I heard words — scalar meson theory,
pseudo-scalar meson
theory, with pseudo-vector coupling, something vector mesons, all kinds
of talk. So I
figured, well, it’s an analogy to electrodynamics, and I kind of
understood the analogy
from looking at books and so on. I think I never had Wenzel’s book, but
I’m not sure.
So I knew vaguely or pretty close to the general idea, but mind you, I
didn’t want to
translate into field theory. But I would just guess. After all, if they
make an analogy to
electrodynamics, I too can make an analogy to electrodynamics. So I
would invent
meson theories, which, see, I had no way of proving. There was no use
finding out what
their field theory expression was and then convert it, because I
couldn’t do that with
electricity. So I’d have to understand a little bit the idea of it, and
go right into my own
formulations and diagrams and rules. So I had to invent the rules
corresponding to
meson theory. It was not difficult. I did it by the same super method,
which is empirical
guesswork. I would guess. If they said vector mesons, it must be like
light, light’s a
vector; the only difference is that the meson has a mass. So probably
the propagator for
the photon, instead of being a solution of d’Alambertian of the wave
function is zero, is
the solution of d’Alambertian of the wave function minus M squared, is
zero, so that
would mean, no doubt, that the propagator, instead of being 1 over Q
squared would be
1 over Q squared minus M squared, and so on. I would guess, from the
idea, I would
guess if it wasn’t vector but rather scalar mesons, it probably means
that the coupling,
instead of gamma Mu to the 4 vector, is one, the scalar operator, and so
on. And so I
would guess at the meson theory, sometimes correctly and sometimes
incorrectly. I had a
slight error—it was my vector mesons. I would guess. Then I would learn
about the
error from some problem, and then I would fix the thing, because I’d
look at somebody
49
else’s formula and I’d say, “My God, it’s more complicated,” so and so,
and then I would
see what it was that I left out, and so on. Through backing and hauling
I got everything.
But I wasn’t sure of anything. I would guess what was meant by the
theory. Well, one
time — this is fun, and I’ll tell the story exactly as I remember it,
although it’s against
certain people, and so on. But we said we weren’t going to worry about
that, OK? I went
to a Physical Society meeting, and I came a little late or something.
Somebody came
running up to me: “What do you think about the discussion between
Slotnik and
Oppenheimer?” So I said, “What discussion, Slotnik and Oppenheimer?” It
turns out
Slotnik had given a paper on the interaction of electron and neutrino.
Electron and the
neutron, I mean. There had been some measurements of the scattering of
electrons by
neutrons in those days, very accurate, so that people were interested in
calculating the
neutron-electron interaction — the scattering of the electrons by
neutrons — due to
meson field corrections… So he had used pseudo-scalar mesons with two
versions of
the theory. Nobody knew which was right—one called pseudo-scalar
coupling, and the
other called pseudo-vector coupling. And in those days, everybody did
everything by
perturbation theory, or nearly. Anyway, this perturbation theory is the
kind of theory I
was doing, with pseudo-scalar coupling and pseudo-vector coupling. This
is what they
told me, see, and that he said he got a different answer, that one of
them converged and
the other one diverged. And after he gave his paper, Oppenheimer got up
and said,
“Well, what about Case’s theorem?” So poor Slotnik said, “I never heard
of Case’s
theorem.” (This is what I heard, anyway, see.) So Oppenheimer says,
“Well, Case is
going to give a theorem tomorrow at this thing which proves that the two
versions have
to give the same result.” So I think — great opportunity! I didn’t say
anything, but I
think, “Great opportunity. I’ll go home and I’ll calculate the
interaction of electrons and
neutrons tonight with the two versions of the theory.” OK? Actually, I
only computed
the difference between the two. We could have done the two versions of
the theory and
computed the difference. I found out in fact that there was a
difference, that one
diverged and the other converged, just like Slotnik had said according
to the report. So
the next day I get to the meeting, and I say, “Hey, Slotnik.” I met him
and I say, “I heard
about the discussion yesterday, and I also worked out the two things,
the interaction of
electron and neutrons last night, and I get the same result. I mean, one
diverges, one
converges. But I want to compare with you and see if I get exactly the
same result. I’m
not sure that I’m using what’s really the pseudo-scalar meson. I don’t
know what those
theories are so I want to check, get an example.” I used to always do
this. I’d check my
calculation against what somebody would do to find out if I was using
the right theory,
to find out if I had the right idea of what the theory was. So I asked
him if he would
check. So he got upset, and he says to me, “What do you mean you did it
last night? It
took me — I don’t know, six months or something,” or two years, probably
six months
–- “working with Pauli, working for Pauli, as a thesis, six months.”
“Well,” I said, “never
mind,” because I didn’t want to explain -– “How’d you do it overnight?”
“Never mind,”
I said. “Let’s see the result. Let’s compare results.” So I opened my
paper, a little
envelope with the two answers to the two cases or whatever it was on it,
and he looks at
his formulas, and he opens it. He looks at mine. He says, “What is that
Q?” I had a
complicated expression for the answer, you know, like “inverse tangent
of Q over Q
50
minus one plus” — something, and so on. And all he has is a number. You
know a
simple expression. So he says, “What’s that Q in there?” “Oh, I say,
“That’s the
momentum transfer. That depends on how much the deflection of the
electron is.”
“What?” he says. “You did it for every deflection of the electron? I’ve
only done it for
the case of zero deflection for forward scattering, where Q equals
zero.” “Well,” I said,
“that’s nothing to that. We’ll just put Q equals zero in my expression,
and see whether it
agrees.” We put Q equals zero, and it agreed. But that is when I knew
that the methods I
had invented were very, very useful, because he had worked six months to
do a special
case, for Q equals zero, and I had a complete function. You know how
much more
elaborate it is to find a function than to find a value at the origin?
And he could only
have found a value at the origin. To find the value as a function of Q
would have been
so much work for him. Six months for one point — it’s too complicated to
find the
function. I kind of made Slotnik unhappy, but it was a great moment for
me, because I
knew that the schemes, the calculation schemes, were good. Actually, I
had a little fun
out of it, too, because the next day I was at the meeting, and Case gave
his paper, you
see, in which he proved in a theorem that the two answers have to give
the same result.
Now, I knew they didn’t give the same result. Well, I agreed with
Slotnik, and Slotnik
had done it by hand, and that’s much better than any theorem. So anyway,
he gives his
theorem and proves that they must give the same result. Of course, you
can’t follow the
proof in a 15 minute paper with all the operators and all. So at the end
of his paper, I
jump up and I say, “What about Slotnik’s calculation?”
Weiner:
Just as Oppenheimer —
Feynman:
Yes, you see, because Oppenheimer — backwards. I did it the other way.
Just for the
hell of it. Everybody kind of laughed.
Weiner:
Do you remember when? Was it ‘49?
Feynman:
I don’t remember. That’s in the Bulletin of the Physical Society. Now,
this brings us to
another problem, the problem of proving the connection. So I was
struggling gradually
to learn. I mean, I had to learn something to prove the connection
between my thing
and the same thing. Dyson had done a great deal in that direction. That
didn’t satisfy me
because I couldn’t follow that. Dyson told me, when he wrote his paper,
“Don’t bother
to read it, there’s nothing in it that you don’t know, except that it
proves it’s the same as
what everybody else knows, but it doesn’t say anything different or do
anything different
51
than is in your paper. Nothing more in it,” he told me.
Weiner:
How did he tell you this? Personally?
Feynman:
Personally, at lunch, in the cafeteria. He must have visited.
Weiner:
He was at Cornell —
Feynman:
Yeah, because I remember him telling me not to worry about the paper. It
hadn’t
anything in it, you see. I said, “Why do you call it drawing a graph? Is
this a mathematical
term that means a lot of lines taken by points? A lot of lines taken by
points is just a
diagram.” But they’ve been called Dyson graphs, as a result of the word
graph which he
likes to use to describe a picture. Anyhow, I teased him about the
formality of his paper.
But then I thought I had to understand the connection, for publication
purposes and
others. And I had a good opportunity, because Case sent me his theorem —
the
manuscript of a big paper that he was going to publish in the Physical
Review, which had
all the steps of the theorem. Now, I argued in the meantime with myself,
in my usual
physical way of arguing, and concluded for several physical reasons, by
some examples
and other things — simpler examples that weren’t so elaborate as the
calculations I made
— that it couldn’t be true that the two methods would give the same
result. In first order
of perturbation they would give the same result. That was clear to
everybody, and I
proved it in a second. But a higher order, they don’t. And this neutron
problem was
already second order, so they didn’t. So I gave several physical
arguments to myself that
they couldn’t be the same. So I wrote Case a letter back. I prepared a
letter in which I
wrote the physical arguments. Then I decided, that isn’t going to
convince him. Nobody
pays any attention to physical arguments, no matter how good they are.
I’ve got to find a
mistake in the proof. But the proof has creation and annihilation
operators and all kinds
of stuff. So I went to some students, in particular Mr. Scalator who was
only fair, but he
understood. He had learned in a pedestrian way what it all meant, and he
explained to
me what the symbols meant. So I learned like a little child what all
this was about, so I
understood what the symbols that he was using in the paper meant, and I
tried to follow
the proof, and I learned enough to be able to do that kind of
mathematics, see — for the
first time. So I followed the whole thing through, and I found a
mistake, a very simple
algebraic error, in the proof. He commuted some things that didn’t
commute and so on.
52
Weiner:
This was in the manuscript —
Feynman:
In the manuscript of Case’s paper. So I wrote him a letter back,
explained the physical
arguments, and finally said (super-modest) that I don’t know this stuff,
I have just
learned this business about the operators, but I think (I knew damn
well) that this thing
that’s supposed to commute doesn’t commute, and that’s probably where
the error is,
see? And I sent it back. The result of that was that I now could find a
way of proving my
own stuff in a more conventional manner.
Weiner:
Did Case publish this with a modification or anything?
Feynman:
Yeah, he published the — Well, this isn’t very nice of me to say, but
it’s true as far as I
know and I don’t think it was very good of him — he published the paper
with the
correction. But now the theorem didn’t prove what he had claimed to
prove in a
published letter of his own. Understand? He gave a paper in the Physical
Society. There
had been discussion about it, as to whether it’s right. And it’s
published as a little item in
which he claims to prove something. Now he doesn’t prove it anymore,
because of the
mistake. So they say, “What a good paper, only proves it in the first
order, that the two
things are right,” something which could be done in one line by my new
methods, and
by other people also in 3 lines or 10 lines. An elaborate paper that
proves that these two
things are right only in the first order, and says so, but doesn’t say
“this is not what I
claimed to have proved in the previous paper.” You understand what I
mean? I felt that
it was wrong not to point out that the thing that had previously been
discussed in the
paper at the meeting was cockeyed. (You might check whether I remember
right or I’m
just prejudiced.)
Weiner:
This was published in the Physical Review?
Feynman:
Yes. You can find out whether or not. It’s curious, because maybe in
prejudice my mind
has got it distorted. He also wrote at the end that he thanks Professor
Feynman for
correcting an error in the manuscript. And I thought that was rather
amusing to me,
because it is not like an error in a manuscript. An ordinary error in a
manuscript is just to
53
improve the typographical errors. But when you change the manuscript so
that the
whole content of the proof is altered — that’s a little amusing, to call
it a correction. But
that’s what I remember. You can look it up and see.
Weiner:
Presumably a paper like that would be refereed —
Feynman:
Yes, it was refereed. Probably people in the Institute of Advanced
Studies or something.
I don’t think he had sent it in before I found the correction. But he
may have. He may
have.
Weiner:
What I’m getting at is that it’s possible a referee could point out,
“This man published so
and so, and this seems to be different than what he’d published before
—”
Feynman:
No, that may not — I don’t know. Maybe. I don’t know. Oh, I see. I
thought you meant
the referee would find that error in the proof. That’s unlikely, because
it takes an awful
lot of work.
Weiner:
No, no, I don’t mean that, but to compare it with the other —
Feynman:
Well, I don’t know. Maybe I remember it wrong, but I think I remember it
right. It
would be interesting to look at it again just to make sure, because
sometimes I’ve looked
at things that I thought for many years and it isn’t exactly the way I
remember it. Usually
it’s built up a little bit, the story, see? But I don’t know.
Weiner:
Let me ask you about publications. Did you feel, in this period, a
pressure to publish?
Feynman:
Yes. I felt the pressure to publish because I had invented these
methods. I knew, for
54
example, that I could do Slotnik’s problem in such a short time, and
therefore I knew I
had something that was valuable to other people. I was concerned about
the fact that I
had not really solved the problems of quantum electrodynamics. The
correction which I
had proposed, the temporary correction, didn’t leave the theory
physically possible,
because energies would be complex or probabilities would not add up to
one. In a limit
it might be all right, but I couldn’t prove it. So I was trying to find
a way of correcting it
so that the corrected theory, the modified theory, was also physically
consistent. And I
couldn’t find it. But I thought it was going to be easy, and I was
waiting to find it. But I
got a considerable pressure, partly from people who wanted to use it.
They heard the
method was good, see, from various rumors. And Bethe had given some
lectures on it. I
had taught it to him. I had gone away to Albuquerque for one summer —
and I can’t get
the date for you right away — during this period, when I was improving
the methods of
calculation. And Bethe wrote me a letter in which he had made a
calculation of
something using what he thought was my method. He kind of woke up, you
see. I’d
been trying to tell it to him, and he went away to England to give some
lectures, and out
of my influence he tried to reconstruct it. He wrote me a letter and
said, “I’ve got
everything agreeing alright but I get the wrong answer.” I showed him a
small mistake,
just a small error in his calculation. He had the right idea, he just
made a subtraction for
an addition or something, and I corrected it and sent it back. He said,
“Dear Professor”
— he wrote to me, you know –- “your student…” And then I sent it back,
the
correction, you see —” You were a very good student, you’ve learned it
in principle, and
this minor error doesn’t really matter.” Then he wrote back, “I guess I
flunk,” and so on.
Weiner:
Did you save these letters?
Feynman:
I might be able to find them. That’s the way he learned to do it, and he
would then
teach. He was explaining to people in England, and he wrote me,
“Everybody wants to
know how to do it. You must write it up and so on. And so for various
reasons I wrote it
up, without the proof that it was equivalent to anybody else’s, but with
as much heuristic
argument that it’s right as I could muster, to make sure that people
could believe it. And
I argued I made an excuse, that it’s better to publish it without the
proof because the
proof is more complicated than the result, and this is the essence of
the thing. Now,
during and after this period of time, people were still following the
Schwinger method of
representing the thing, and I could see papers in which they would start
to formulate
some problem, and they would formulate it with operators and they’d
write a
“Schwingerian method,” going zing zing zing, and after about 5, 6, 7
pages full of
mathematical symbols in the Physical Review, they’d come to a little
expression, short
and neat, for the problem, which is an expression which, if you had the
diagram thing,
you’d write down at the beginning of the paper. Then they would compute
the answer
from the expression. So I knew that sooner or later, something’s gotta
go. You see, what
55
they would do is, they would come to this short expression. Then they
would say, “This
is precisely the expression that one would write down using Feynman’s
rules.” Then they
would go on. But nobody had the guts to write down the expression in the
beginning.
They somehow or other couldn’t do it. They had to go through this to
believe it. But
that’s all right. The only person who didn’t, the first paper where it
was used directly —
which I kept looking for, I kept flipping through the Physical Review as
it came out —
was Ashkin. He’d done some calculation for some experiment, and he said,
“We’ve
calculated this using Feynman’s rules.” Bloop! There it was in writing!
Then gradually
more and more people did it.
Weiner:
When was that, do you remember?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
But it was the Physical Review?
Feynman:
Yeah, it was in the Physical Review. That must have been at least,
almost a year after I
published my paper, I think. There was a long period in which it was
still a miracle —
you know? People just didn’t have the guts to do it that way, because
they felt that they
had to verify that that was right first. See, Schwinger had the one
advantage that he had
demonstrated that his things were equivalent to the standard thing
directly. I hadn’t.
Weiner:
Let me ask you a question about publication and so forth. Did you or do
you have
feelings about priority in any of your work?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
Feelings of the need to establish your own priority, as opposed to
someone else.
56
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
Were you conscious of this in other people though, whether other people
felt this?
Feynman:
Yes. I think so.
Weiner:
In what way?
Feynman:
I think, like Case was worried about his reputation with this theorem.
But I’m not sure. I
would say more of them — I don’t know about other people but I didn’t
worry too
much about that. No, I wasn’t worried about people using a thing, if I
invented it. I was
pretty sure it would come out. For example, I think that many people
think, or thought,
that many of the things that Dyson said, he’d invented, whereas (they
were) directly
mine. So if there was any jealousy involved, it would be of Dyson, that
he published this
paper which explained all my results before I did, so that there became
a lot of lore by
high class theorists about Dyson graphs and Dyson’s method. And neither
the method
nor the graphs were Dyson’s, and Dyson said so. Dyson’s a friend of
mine, and I
understood the misunderstanding, if you know what I mean. It wasn’t that
he was trying
to steal something from me, he was trying to tell the world that there
was something
good here, and he had discovered the connection, that the two things
were equivalent.
Weiner:
And therefore made it understandable.
Feynman:
It helped to make it understandable to people. And he wrote some kind of
paper in
some kind of crazy language I couldn’t understand, that they could
understand. It was
like translating it. It’s sometimes a mistake to translate it for the
author, that’s all. It
bothered me only slightly. It was nothing that I was really concerned
with, ever. I
wouldn’t like it if today the things were still called Dyson graphs.
That would be me —
not miserable, but I would complain to you slightly on that score.
57
Weiner:
How long did it go on? Did that have much currency — this term, Dyson
graphs?
Feynman:
Yes. Then it became Dyson-Feynman graphs, with other people calling it
Feynman
graphs, you see. Probably, through people who knew the story better, it
was more and
more used — and now, at last, it has come to be, “We write down the
diagram for this
process.” And that’s the best. That’s the best, because then you’ve
become anonymous.
“The diagram” makes you feel even better than “Feynman’s diagram.” It’s
that “the.”
“The” rule for this. That’s much better.
Weiner:
This was already in the ‘50s when they started talking about
Dyson-Feynman graphs or
diagrams. When did they start talking about Feynman graphs as such? When
did you
begin feeling this was common
Feynman:
You just asked me — what?
Weiner:
Oh, when the Feynman diagrams came into common use?
Feynman:
Oh, it was first by Ashkin. Then, from then on, it was just a gradual
increase. Like even
people who would write the Schwinger thing, they would say, for example,
“This
expression could be obtained directly from Feynman by the following
diagram.” They
might make a diagram, even. Then they gradually used less and less of
the other, and
there were more and more papers using the diagram, and it was just — I
can’t recount
the story. It just gradually came into use.
Weiner:
How about Tomonaga’s work? When did you first hear of it?
Feynman:
I don’t know when I first heard of it. The work itself, I never knew
exactly what it was,
58
and I don’t yet know precisely what it was.
Weiner:
You read his paper?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
I mean, there’s one paper that is often cited —
Feynman:
No. No. I don’t think I read the paper. But this must be understood — I
don’t mean
anything disparaging. If Schwinger hadn’t been in the front yard at
Pocono, or next to
me, I wouldn’t have known what he did either. I got the same as
everybody else. If you
can do it yourself, why learn how somebody else does it? So I don’t know
precisely what
the relation of Tomonaga’s and Schwinger’s work is or the relation of
his and mine. I
think the relation of Tomonaga’s work to my work is very small. I mean,
I think he’s
gone around much closer the direction that Schwinger went.
Weiner:
I think it’s the general impression.
Feynman:
But I don’t know the precise relationship of their work. But I believe,
if I’m not
mistaken, although you’ll have to ask Schwinger, that everything that
Schwinger did he
did without knowledge of what Tomonaga did. I hear, but I don’t know,
that Tomonaga
did a very great deal, and did essentially what Schwinger did, except
perhaps for working
on certain practical problems. I don’t know. That’s what I hear. But I
don’t know. I’m
sorry, that sounds stupid, but I have never looked into it, and I never
read Schwinger’s
paper in a comprehensible way. I don’t know what’s in that paper of
Schwinger’s.
Weiner:
Haven’t tried to read it?
Feynman:
59
Never. Tried in the sense that I looked at it and I flipped the pages,
because it’s too hard.
I read it at a time when I didn’t even know what a creation-annihilation
operator was. I
read it — you probably can prove that by the fact that I refer to it in
various places, and
get certain formulas out of it — I read it in the same way that I talk
to him. When
something looks like something, I know that’s it, you know? But I didn’t
follow all the
steps. I never followed all the steps.
Weiner:
But you did know, when you talked to him at Pocono, and then —
Feynman:
I know Schwinger — that’s what I say, I must have read it in pieces and
bits. I know
what Schwinger did; I know more or less how he did it.
Weiner:
And you knew while it was being done?
Feynman:
No, not while it was being done, I never knew what it was. Well,
something.
Weiner:
— but in ‘48, because you were —
Feynman:
Yes, because we talked together, we had the physical idea of what starts
it, but there’s a
difference from that and checking all the equations, and I doubt that
Schwinger had sat
down and looked carefully at my appendix, for example, which explains
how to do the
integrals. Why does he have to, when he can do the integrals himself?
How to get a term
by writing down a diagram — that he may never have paid attention to
because he could
get the term by doing something else. So I don’t know whether he really
read mine in
detail or not. But he knows what’s in it, and I know what’s in his, but
I can’t tell you.
Perhaps if I look at his paper carefully, I can see that I really did
read it, you know? I
mean, I’d have to have it and look at it and see if I did read it.
That’s a good way to look.
I doubt that I read it in detail. I doubt that I looked at all of the
various complicated sub-
things that he had to worry about, like what to do with the longitudinal
waves —
because I don’t think there’s any problem with the longitudinal waves. I
couldn’t pay
attention to such a thing, see? So I doubt that I’ve ever read the paper
in any careful way
60
like a student would try to learn it. I don’t believe I’ve ever done
that.
Weiner:
Let me get back to ‘49. Tell me if this is the beginning of something
new. It’s the first
paper on nuclear physics, “Equations of State of Elements Based on the
Generalized
Fermi-Thomas Theory,” Metropolis and Teller. You did this in ‘49.
Feynman:
Well, we published it in ‘49. We did it in ‘44 or ‘45, during the war,
at Los Alamos. Now,
that was part of the war. In the war we needed to know the
compressibility of substances
under very high pressure, because in the bomb, when stuff went off, it
would explode
and push into material on the outside. So the pressures were much higher
than had ever
been made before. So the question is equation of state, which means if
you compress to
a certain pressure, what density does it get to? How dense does it get?
And how hot, and
so on. We had no experience to go by. They had very high pressures. You
don’t have to
worry about the details of the electrons in the shells. We used an
approximate model
called the Fermi-Thomas model of the atom, which is valid—when the outer
shells are
broken down, when the pressure gets so high that the number of
conduction electrons is
very high. Not a high fraction, but all the valence electrons are
conduction electrons.
You don’t have to worry about S band, P band and some others that are
not conducting
and so on. They’re all very well conducting, like the outer shell plus a
bit of the next shell
is all in the conduction band. Then the detailed structures of the
orbits and so on of the
various levels don’t have to be worried about so much. You can use
statistical methods.
So at the high pressure we had this, and we calculated this stuff — high
pressure
behaviors of materials. We extrapolated that back, and tried to match it
against the low
pressure — things like knowledge of the center of the earth, and work by
Bridgeman. So
we kind of drew lines between them. We’d calculate everything about the
atomic bomb,
using an interpolated line, but the other end of that line was
calculated by theory. I have
recently found that that theory is still used, that it turned out to be
very useful. War work
sometimes proves useful. The properties of materials at high pressures,
such as in the
center of Jupiter and other situations where people may need it, is
worked out by just
taking it out of that paper. A lot of other work has been done on top of
that paper, but I
haven’t followed it.
Weiner:
That was essentially not any change. The only reason I brought it up at
this point —
Feynman:
— no change —
61
Weiner:
— was that it comes in this period. (crosstalk)
Feynman:
It’s become declassified. I was again not involved. Teller and
Metropolis presumably
were involved. An amusing story about that paper — I was stuck in Reno
and needed
money. I’d run out of money. I was taking a trip. It’s very hard to cash
a check in Reno,
Nevada, because everyone thinks you’re a crook. Who will cash a bad
check, you know?
I was looking pretty disreputable, because I like to travel in a car
that way. I was coming
from the East. I used to take vacations by traveling across the United
States. And I had
run out of money. I was on my way to some meeting in Seattle. So I went
to the Physics
Department, the University of Nevada, figuring there’d be somebody there
in physics
who’d heard of my name — this was after 1949. I’d published these
papers, and they
would do me the favor of countersigning or telling the bank it was OK.
So I went there.
I couldn’t find anybody. First, it was summertime, and second, I went
around, and it
turned out that everybody’s in mining. They call it physics, but it was
geophysics, and all
the guys I could find there had never heard of me, because, you know,
they were in
geophysics. Finally, the head of the department, temporarily, was an
astronomy man.
There was a man giving a lecture in physics in the Department of
Astronomy, whose
name unfortunately I don’t remember. The poor man is dead now. And he
came out. I
waited till he came out of the classroom, and I started to approach him.
He was a nice
man, but a little worried about this funny-looking guy who claimed to be
a physicist, and
he’d never heard of me either. But he was kind enough to say it would be
all right. So I
took him to the bank, and they checked it from his account, by my
writing a check to
him, you see, and then giving me cash. When we got to the bank, I made
it for a little bit
more than I had told him I was going to make it before. He said that was
all right. Then
as he was cashing the check I told him I had run out of money because I
had met an old
girlfriend who was a chorus girl in the States Hotel, and that sounded
bad to him. I did it
purposely. I was very mean. So I got him nervous. So he said, “Perhaps
we had better go
back to the office and see if we can establish who you are better.” He
wanted to go back
to the office to check some more, because he became nervous, so I went
back to the
office with him. I thought one way would be to find a reference to me in
the Physical
Review — you know a reference to me, in some paper. I was sure I could
find it, so I
picked up the paper and said, “Look, I’ll find one.” I picked up the
Physical Review, and
I kept looking in the footnotes — footnotes all over the place. I
couldn’t find anybody
referring to me in the whole damn thing. I was flipping the pages very
nervously, and I
threw the thing down in some despair. And it was open at a thing in
which I was the
author. The paper by Teller, Metropolis and Feynman had just been
published, and I
didn’t even know it was published. Metropolis probably had written it up
and sent it in.
It was very amusing — here I had a paper in the Physical Review, and I
was looking for
a reference instead! So I showed him the paper. He was much happier,
content, and not
so nervous, and let me go.
62
Weiner:
Anyway, that’s a long way from Cornell, to the Seattle meeting.
Feynman:
I think there was something going on in Seattle at that time.
Weiner:
I didn’t mean to distract you —
Feynman:
As a matter of fact, Reno was en route from Las Vegas to Seattle. I went
straight to Las
Vegas.
Weiner:
That’s why you had no money.
Feynman:
Yes. And then to Reno, and then to Seattle.
Weiner:
Sort of a roundabout way, isn’t it? I didn’t mean to distract you from
the sequence of
papers and work in this very productive period in the ‘40s —
Feynman:
I think we’re done.
Weiner:
That’s what I wanted to know, whether you think you’ve covered
everything. If you’ve
told the story on that, or at least told as much of it as you can
remember now —
Feynman:
I only remember that it took me a long time to write the papers, and
also that at that
63
time I started some calculations on some problems, like the Compton
Effect and so on
with Laurie Brown. We wrote something about the Compton Effect, the
second order
Compton Effect. In other words, I wanted to use the methods. Students
who were
trying to get PhD’s then were given problems for which this method could
help. But it
also helped a guy named Lomanitz on a problem that he had. In other
words, they began
to apply the methods to some problems, and some guys would get degrees.
Another guy
is Robert Frank, who was calculating the fourth order mass correction of
the electron, in
which I believe he made an error, but we didn’t know it at the time. And
so on. In other
words, there were some graduate students. Also Lord Thompson, who was
calculating
magnetic moments and meson theory. I showed him with these diagrams how
to make
the calculation.
Weiner:
Were you using them in your lectures, the diagrams?
Feynman:
No, no. No. The subjects that I was teaching at the time probably
weren’t advanced
enough.
Weiner:
How were you getting along with the teaching? You talked about your
first course.
Feynman:
I was all right at the teaching. I didn’t have any trouble.
Weiner:
So, in other words, were your lectures — were they lectures, first of
all?
Feynman:
Yeah. Well, lectures with problems, and kids would give them, and hand
them in, I’d
correct them and so on. I worked hard at teaching in the beginning, and
they were OK. I
think the students were satisfied. Later, you give the same course ever
again, and you
don’t work so hard if you don’t reorganize it. I got more and more
careless about
teaching. And if I teach something I’ve taught before, it’s not any
longer a good course,
because I borrow so much stuff from before; and I’m so lazy about
correcting papers
and preparing the courses, I don’t think they’re any good any more. I
think I’m getting
less and less careful as a teacher, relatively. I mean, I’m still
useful, but I think I used to
64
be good, really good, relatively. And now I’m lazy. I don’t do enough
work in preparing
the classes. But then I did a lot of work and took it very seriously,
thinking exactly what I
was going to say and how to explain things.
Weiner:
You got some satisfaction —
Feynman:
Well, the same way, when I prepared these Feynman Lectures on Physics I
did a lot of
work, and I was perfectly satisfied with that aspect of it. But with
graduate courses now,
I’ve given every subject so many times that instead of giving a new and
fresh, modern,
up to the last minute course in it, I just take some of the old junk and
say it again. Like it
looked to me all professors were doing when I was a young man.
Weiner:
What about your satisfaction in teaching?
Feynman:
It’s therefore less.
Weiner:
Now, at Cornell —
Feynman:
Anyway, then I think I was still giving good courses. I was even when I
got here, for a
while. But it’s gradually deteriorated. It’s easy to fix, if I only do
the work.
Weiner:
Do you feel, then, it would take you away from other work?
Feynman:
No. I hope to do the work on the next course I’m going to teach.
Weiner:
65
You mean, in the fall?
Feynman:
Yes, because I’m going to have to re-cook the whole course. See, if I
have to make a new
course, I’m all right. It’s when I’m teaching something I’ve taught four
times before,
same subject, that it loses its —
Weiner:
— that’s understandable.
Feynman:
Incidentally, shall I talk about teaching?
Weiner:
That’s something that must be included.
Feynman:
Well, when? I mean, shall we talk about it now?
Weiner:
If you think it’s the logical time, unless you think that at Cornell —
Feynman:
Why don’t we turn that thing off and think about it, so we don’t waste
tape arguing, you
know? Then we’ll see. First, I noticed another paper called “Operator
Calculus with
Applications to Quantum Electrodynamics,” which was published in 1951.
Now, what
that thing is, is this. I had invented a new mathematical method of
dealing with
operators, with ordering the operators according to a parameter which I
to this day feel
is a great invention, and which nobody uses for anything, and which
nobody pays any
attention to, but I just take this opportunity to say that I think that
that thing is someday
going to be — I mean, maybe in history you’ll find out that the guy knew
it was good or
thought it was good and it never was good, or whatever, but I still
think it’s an important
invention, a very important invention. But I haven’t found many uses for
it.
Nevertheless, in spite of that — and I’m a very practical guy — I still
think it’s
something very important, just as important as I felt when I wrote it. I
had used it in
order to formulate my quantum electrodynamics. I invented it to do that.
It was in fact
66
the mathematical formulation that I expressed at the Pocono Conference —
that was in
this crazy language. Dates don’t mean anything. It was printed in 1951,
but it was
invented at least by 1948. I called it operator calculus, yeah. Now, I
published it at this
time because, after I had given the rules, and proved that they were the
same as the other
things, or at least let Dyson carry the proof because people don’t
bother to read my
proof. It’s too elaborate and funny and the notations are odd, and it’s
based on the path
integrals and they don’t know that anyway. But I had to do it for my own
purposes. The
proof is a paper called —
Weiner:
“Mathematical Formulations of the Quantum Theory of Electromagnetic
Interaction.”
Feynman:
Yeah, right, right, which is an unnecessary paper; it was only because
Dyson had proved
that he did it in some way and I had to say how I did it. But the other
paper was not
completely empty. It has some interest. The other paper, on the operator
calculus, I felt
— you see, through the years I had invented and accumulated a whole lot
of debris. You
can’t study this thing without noticing things. So I had noticed certain
ways of
representing spin zero particles by path integrals. I had invented this
operator calculus. I
had a whole potpourri of junk that I didn’t know where to put. Most of
it was the
operator calculus. So this paper actually contains a few other little
things in various
appendices, including exactly the right co-efficient to put in the rules
of the earlier
papers, which I’d never gotten straightened out, like the sines and the
factors. So it’s
kind of a funny paper. It’s on one subject, but in the middle of it,
tells you what co-
efficient to put on some other formula. Also, it contains a whole lot of
little bits and
pieces of things that I had noticed in playing with these problems. So
it was kind of a
place to put an accumulation of junk, and I thought it necessary to
print. Otherwise I
had no place to put it, except a lot of little papers, see. So I had to
disgorge myself of a
backlog or a bankful of valuable things in there. The central item, the
operator calculus
is, I still think, a thing that was invented that’s very important.
Weiner:
Your description of the paper sounds as if you felt it had completed
this project.
Feynman:
Yes. That’s what I was trying to do. I was finishing. Right. I wouldn’t
have the feeling
that I had anything else about it that was very necessary or ought to be
published,
definitely. I put in there everything that I thought ought to be
published that I knew, in
that paper. So that was the end, so to speak, of my published work in
that particular
field.
67
Weiner:
That was ‘51 —
Feynman:
It’s only ‘51 because it took me so long to write the damn thing. I had
terrible trouble in
writing papers. I had great difficulty. The only papers I wrote easily
were the two papers
called “Classical Relativistic Cutoff for Classical Electrodynamics,”
“Relativistic Cutoff
for Quantum Electrodynamics,” because I was simply told by Rabi, “Just
write it any old
way. Get it out. And the improved techniques and so on you can put in a
more careful
paper later.” This suggestion came from an old fellow to a young man,
and I did that,
and so I found it very easy. But the other papers, in which I wanted
everything to be just
so, took me a long time to be very careful and to get everything just
so, and to find the
best way of formulating and the best way of expressing it. So there’s
lots of delays in
writing the papers, and I was spending a lot of time writing papers
after I had worked
everything out.
Weiner:
So it was not a question of working it out and then just sitting down —
Feynman:
I can’t sit down and write it quickly.
Weiner:
Do you actually — then you’re actually doing the work in the process of
doing the
paper?
Feynman:
A great deal of formulation work is done in writing the paper,
organizational work,
organization. I think of a better way, a better way, a better way of
getting there, of
proving it. I never do much — I mean, it’s just cleaner, cleaner and
cleaner. It’s like
polishing a rough-cut vase. The shape, you know what you want and you
know what it
is. It’s just polishing it. Get it shined, get it clean, and everything
else.
Weiner:
What’s the longest it’s ever taken you to write a paper, once you decide
this paper is
68
ready to be written?
Feynman:
I can’t do that. I start to write it, and sometimes I leave it, and
what’s happening to me
now is that I have four or five things on which I’ve done enough work to
easily write a
paper, and I just haven’t got around to writing them. Four or five —
well, that’s exactly
right. I’ve found that my trouble is, I haven’t been writing things up.
I discover things,
and then other people discover them later, and then it’s not worth
writing them up. For
instance, I worked out the quantum theory of gravitation to an order
infinitely higher —
I mean, to a degree, to a detail, infinitely higher — than anybody else
that I know. But it
isn’t complete. There are some slight weaknesses. So I haven’t written
it up. But it’s crazy
— that’s five years old now. It should be written up.
Weiner:
Do others know about it?
Feynman:
Partly, partly, but it’s much further along than they think. It’s quite
elaborate. I’ve got all
kinds of stuff. It’s just a big pile of stuff. In the meantime, people
are publishing things
which cover various features, so it’ll make it easier for me to publish
it when the time
comes. Still, what’s bothering me is that I haven’t got through exactly
to the end.
Probably if I sat down and wrote it, I’d find my way to the end.
Weiner:
That’s what I was suggesting; it sounds as if that was your style of
work.
Feynman:
Well, possibly. Possibly. But anyhow, it isn’t written. I did some work
in biology that
would have been easy as pie to write at the time, but I never got around
to writing the
article until somebody else discovered the same thing, a year later. And
it would have
been useful to them to have had that discovery known before, to help
them. And there
are other things like that. So I’m in rather a bind now about writing. I
can’t seem to get
to writing things. It’s very unfortunate. I’ve always had trouble
writing. I’m lucky — I
have no trouble speaking. But I have terrible trouble writing.
Weiner:
Do you feel you do better under pressure?
69
Feynman:
If the pressure’s good enough, yes. Then I can just finish the whole
damn thing. I can
write under pressure. It’s the only way I really can write.
Weiner:
And perhaps you feel less pressure —
Feynman:
I don’t feel much pressure. That’s the trouble. When I did the work in
helium, which
we’ll come to in due time —
Weiner:
You mean this whole super-conductivity?
Feynman:
Super-fluidity. Helium — at something — I don’t know what stage I was
in, but I wasn’t
writing it up; I was just fiddling around. And Barker, who was very
clever, said to me
that he heard a rumor that Schwinger was working on liquid helium. And
so I wrote it
up and published it. And, of course, he was only teasing me. That’s the
way I got it
written, though. I mean, that was a good idea. I wish somebody would
come along with
a similar scheme for getting me to publish a couple of other items.
Three things at least I
have now that would be publishable, which I haven’t written. I can’t sit
down and write
because I have other things I want to do, I want to develop further.
Also I’m not very
efficient these days. I get lazy. If I sit down here, I fall asleep. You
know? I mean, I sit
down to write, it gets hard, and I fall asleep. And before I write I
should correct
manuscripts of speeches. You see, people hound me to give a speech. And
I write them.
When I give the speech I am not writing it. “Oh, can’t we make a tape?
Will you edit a
tape?” It never works right. Then I give the speech, the tape comes,
they’ve got it all
edited, and I can’t even get around to fixing it, because I want the
sentences not be so
lousy. I want to improve it, and if they let me get my hands on it, I
stop the whole thing,
because I don’t do it, and I want to improve it, and it’s a bastard.
There’s a lot of stuff
that’s being held up by that. And so I’ve got a big pile of junk I have
to climb through
somehow. But I want to do some other kind of research. Maybe I should
climb through
all the junk first. I don’t know.
Weiner:
Or scrap it, you know, go on to something else.
70
Feynman:
I don’t know, it’s too much stuff, it’s good stuff, too good to scrap.
Weiner:
That’s interesting.
Feynman:
Yes, difficult, but interesting.
Weiner:
It is. It’s a hard situation to understand.
Feynman:
If I found it easy to write, then everything would be fine. I wish I
could. Speaking is easy.
But writing is not easy.
Weiner:
Did you ever try dictating a paper?
Feynman:
Yeah, in forced condition, I do it all right. If there’s some terrible,
terrible pressure, then
I can get it out, and it’s perfectly all right. When there’s no
pressure, I go back over the
sentences. I don’t like the way it looks. I fix, I fix, I fix — it’s no
good, and I never get it
done. I get too tired. When there’s pressure, I keep doing it, and the
hell with it, get it
out, and then I look at it right there, it’s not so bad.
Weiner:
Do you remember that early statement of your vow when you got to
Cornell, that you
weren’t going to worry about other people’s expectations, but just go do
it?
Feynman:
Yeah. Of course, I’m in that other bind, too. I’m worried that if I work
on problems that
are advanced, I always think, I ought to do them. I have a feeling of
“ought.” I ought to
work on high energy physics — right? Why do I? I don’t know.
71
Weiner:
Because people expect you to, I guess.
Feynman:
Somehow I feel I ought to. It’s bad to have an “ought.” It mixes you up.
The net result
is — nothing.
Weiner:
A lot of people have thoughts, but they’re not on the surface.
Feynman:
Yeah. Well, anyhow.
Weiner:
You mentioned — I don’t know if you want to talk about it now — beta
decay.
Feynman:
That’s later. That comes later. I have helium — helium is in between.
Oh, you wanted to
know about Cornell, what it was like.
Weiner:
Yes, and then we’ll get onto this whole sequence of other work.
Feynman:
I came to Caltech. Oh, and there was something else I wanted to say. Not
only do you
publish a paper, but you give lectures, you see. You give papers, you
give lectures, and
you might want to know what kind of lectures on this subject I gave.
Weiner:
Yeah, you mean at Physical Society meetings?
Feynman:
72
Yes, things like that. I mean, how you go about telling people.
Weiner:
That’s a thing that if you don’t talk about it now, we’ll never have a
record of it.
Feynman:
I’m not going to give a complete record. I’m just giving a remembrance.
Weiner:
Yes, fine.
Feynman:
I was invited to the Physical Society to give a — you know, not invited,
but I submitted
a paper or something to the Physics Society to explain the backwards
moving positron,
the positrons and electrons going backwards in time. This is after the
rumor is around,
and I’ve explained it at Pocono. I explained it — you know, partly. But
then I worked
out better ways to explain it, and I prepared this paper, and I also
made a paper for the
Physics Society, a 15 minute thing, to describe it. So I went to the
Physics Society and
gave this paper, and I wanted Professor Oppenheimer to hear it, and
other people like
that. I particularly wanted Oppenheimer to hear it because he often said
that there wasn’t
anything to it. He understood Schwinger’s and he didn’t understand mine.
And I thought
he would be at the meeting. I’d kind of half thought about him when I
prepared it.
When I went to the meeting, he wasn’t there, but I gave the paper, and
then Weisskopf
got up and said, “This paper is so important and unusual” and so on
“that we ought to
give the man more time to express his ideas.” That sometimes happens. It
can be by a
vote of the people, to give more time. So they voted to give me more
time. But the only
trouble was, I had prepared it so perfectly for the time. I mean, I
didn’t do such a perfect
job, but I’d organized the ideas in a certain sequence to get them into
the ten minutes,
and I’d gone through the whole thing. I couldn’t think of what to do
with the extra. It’s
not as if I’d been cut off in the middle. I couldn’t think of what to
do, what to add to it.
Anyway, people knew it was useful. Then I stepped down, and just at that
moment,
Oppenheimer came in and sat down in the chair just ahead of me. And he
turned around
and said, “What did you talk about?” I said, “The idea of electrons
going backwards,”
meaning positrons. He said, “Oh, I heard all that. Oh, yes,” he said, “I
heard that stuff,
right? That stuff I heard.” I said, “Yeah, you’ve heard it, but you’ve
never understood it.”
Now, the response to that was an invitation I found in the mail when I
got back to
Cornell, to come to Princeton to the Institute and explain all my ideas,
in as many
lectures as I wished, two a week, as long a time as I wanted, expenses
to be paid by the
Institute, and so on. He’s a very great man, I know. I mean, I
understand him. We’re
good friends. You know. I mean, it’s not enemies. I said that because I
was trying to get
73
something across to him, that he didn’t understand it. That was honest.
He knew that if I
were driven to say that that was true — you know what I mean — and it
was worth
learning. So I said that, and his response was very generous — any
length of time I want,
any conditions. So I went to the Institute of Advanced Study.
Weiner:
I’m sorry, but when was this? If it was after the Pocono Conference —
Feynman:
It shouldn’t have been more than a week or two after I gave this paper
at the Physical
Society meeting, which must appear in some meeting.
Weiner:
Yeah, darn it, it’s after the Pocono Conference?
Feynman:
Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Oh, yes, it’s after the Pocono Conference. Not much
after, but it’s
after the Pocono Conference.
Weiner:
Probably in ‘49. You’re still at Cornell.
Feynman:
Yeah. I don’t know if the paper was published yet. I’m still at Cornell,
definitely, right.
Good. That’s all right. Well, I went to Princeton, to the Institute of
Advanced Study, and
there were these smart people there, and they came to the lecture, and I
explained it,
explained the ideas. And I always had the impression at the Institute —
Well, I gave the
lectures, and it was very successful. All the questions were very
practical. And very
sensible. And I was rather terrified of the Institute before that,
because it was well
known that all these guys at the Institute would talk a good game, you
see. Like
somebody would say, “Well, isn’t that just the same as Smorglepop’s
theory?” I’ll give
you another example of it in a minute. At any rate, I gave the lectures,
and there were
nothing but practical questions like, “If you were trying to do this
problem, how would
you set it up? Did you mean by this a minus sign there?” “Yes” You know.
All perfectly
OK, and I gave nice lectures. I gave all the lectures I wanted to and
explained everything
and went back home to Cornell. I said: “Hey, Hans, the Institute has
changed!
Something has happened. These guys are very different. They didn’t ask
anything but
74
sensible questions. They didn’t say, ‘Isn’t that the same as
Porkyschnorp in 1621?’ or
something like that.” “Oh,” he said, “I know the reason. I went just a
few weeks before
you did and gave some lectures on nuclear physics. I started to give the
lectures and I
hadn’t opened my mouth and said two, three, four words, when this stuff
started.
Somebody jumps up and asks a question. He says, ‘Isn’t that the same as
what
Wegischnorp said in 1960, and so on, in a paper in the Weische Physica
Acta?’
Somebody else, before I can answer, gets up (typical Princeton
Institute) and says, ‘No,
you see, what Bethe is going to say is ‘this, that and the other thing,’
and what the fellow
says in the Weische Physica Acta is ‘this, slightly different.’ And
somebody else says, ‘No,
it isn’t exactly so different, because Bethe —’” He says to me, “So when
the third fellow
gets up to argue, I slam the table” — you know, when Bethe gets mad he
can look
formidable -– “I slam the table and I said, ‘Gentlemen, if you knew what
I was going to
say, why did you invite me to speak? Now, I want to make an
uninterrupted speech,
unless you have a specific, detailed, and sensible question.’” Then he
gave his lecture.
When I followed, they were still smarting under the spanking that they
had gotten from
Hans, you see. So they were asking only sensible questions. I was afraid
that they would
just try to tear me limb from limb — you know, saying “This is just
Schwinger stuff. You
can do it this way. Why don’t you do it that way? Why don’t you do it
this way?” And
then quoting some other guys, and making it very esoteric and difficult
and fancy. They
have a kind of one-upmanship which practical people can see through, but
which a poor
fellow is fooled by. I wouldn’t have been fooled by it, but I would have
been terribly
annoyed by it, because they wouldn’t have been learning from me. They
wouldn’t have
been paying attention if they’d started that game. They close their
minds to find out if it
isn’t the same as something they already know. Therefore, they don’t
have to learn it. So
at any rate, that was my opinion of the Institute, but I had, I must
admit, no trouble
whatever, and they were a very, very good audience. They listened and
asked only
sensible questions. Then, sometime after that — I can’t tell you when,
1949 or ‘50, in the
summer — I visited Ann Arbor, because I was invited there to give a
series of lectures
on quantum electrodynamics. It must be a bit of time afterwards. So I
gave a whole
sequence in Ann Arbor.
Weiner:
This was in summer.
Feynman:
Yeah, in the summer school that they had there.
Weiner:
Have you ever participated in the summer schools?
75
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
I guess they were suspended during the war —
Feynman:
That was the only summer school I was at, Ann Arbor.
Weiner:
And you were there just to teach.
Feynman:
Just this quantum electrodynamics. And I was invited, at one point along
the line, to
Caltech, to give a series of lectures explaining this stuff, my ideas on
this stuff, and I gave
lectures which I think were too difficult. They weren’t clear to
everybody. They were too
difficult. But this was a chance to see Caltech, and to go around Los
Angeles. I had tried
many years to get to Los Angeles, by going across the country during the
summer,
leisurely, by car, and stopping wherever I felt like
Weiner:
What was the attraction in Las Vegas?
Feynman:
Well, I liked — well, just the adventure of meeting various people. I
didn’t gamble. I
can’t understand — I can’t gamble. I understand the mathematics of the
odds. I believe
firmly that the games are presumably fair. They’re honest. If they’re
honest, there’s no
game to it, because it’s just a question of how the dice go, and it
isn’t interesting to me.
It’s just accident.
Weiner:
So when you go there, you don’t gamble?
Feynman:
No, but I’m interested in — if you’re interested in my personal life,
why, I can go into
76
that. All right, I’ll go back to Cornell — (crosstalk) — you see, I —
Weiner:
Well, I’m sorry, but —
Feynman:
I know, you interrupt, but I was going out to Los Angeles, and giving a
lecture at
Caltech, and when I was giving those lectures, I was invited to come to
Caltech as a
permanent position.
Weiner:
Who made that offer?
Feynman:
Dr. Bacher, who in the meantime had moved from Cornell to Caltech.
Weiner:
I see. Had you known him pretty well at Cornell?
Feynman:
Yes. And also during the war. He was at Los Alamos. He was a very good
friend of
Bethe. Many times we would walk, he and Bethe and I and some others,
mountain
climbing trips and things like that. Cyril Smith, Bethe, Bacher, myself
and some others,
young fellows, would go together a lot. Cyril Smith is a good friend of
Bacher. So there
were three men who liked each other very much. They would often invite
other young
men along. I met all three of them that way.
Weiner:
And Bacher was here, and he —
Feynman:
He offered me this job, and after much debating back and forth, I took
the job. Now,
about Cornell. This was something to do with taking the job at Caltech.
Somewhere
along the way, another thought struck me, which is that the world is in
a — did I tell you
what I thought about the atomic bomb and everything right after the war?
That I
77
couldn’t look at New York City and people building a new building
without thinking
they’re crazy? When I came to New York, I would eat in a restaurant and
look down the
street, and think of what would happen if a bomb was down at 34th
Street, and you’re
up at 52nd Street, it’s less than — you know, is it half a mile?
Wherever it is or nearly a
mile. But this thing has a radius of that much, or something. All these
bricks, all that
which was in between — you know, and so on. And I’d realize the terrible
thing the
atomic bomb represented, and that I had a feeling — possibly because my
wife had died,
and so I had some feeling of impermanence of things — and also, a
general prejudice
that human beings were doing exactly the same thing in discussing the
world with each
other, at the UN and everywhere else, as they had done before. It looked
to me —
you’re an historian, better than I — it looked to me like history was
not getting anywhere
that they were holding the same kinds of stupid, selfish, national views
that they had
before. And it seemed to me inevitable that they would be led into a
war, and this was
just a matter of a little time. And so I couldn’t get the idea that
there was really a future. I
thought it was very imminent. I would even think that people were crazy.
They didn’t
understand it, and they’d go to build a new bridge or a tunnel or a
building. I’m glad not
everybody believed the way I did, or the whole damn thing would have
stopped. It
would have been stupid. But I spent a lot of time, at that time,
explaining about the
bomb to people, in lectures, if I were invited to do so.
Weiner:
At Cornell?
Feynman:
The earliest days at Cornell. I’m just trying to remember odd things
there—you know,
not work, but things aside from it. Because I felt, as many of us did,
that we knew
something about the bomb, and that citizens should know more, because
the decisions
are made (idealistically) by people, which the citizens are. So whenever
invited, I would
give talks on the atomic bomb, and I would accept every invitation of
this kind.
Weiner:
Local groups? Cornell?
Feynman:
Well, first I was asked by the women’s club at Cornell. The Goodrich
Rubber Co.
Laboratory personnel. And the Temple back at home, with which I had been
once
associated. That was fun — my parents had never heard me speak. And I
came home. I
was going to give this speech. And I teased them a little bit. I was
trying to prepare it,
and I was worrying, and I told my mother, “I don’t know, how does this
sound? ‘Many
years ago, when I was a small boy here, I was asked to give money for a
brick to go into
78
this Temple. I never dreamed that I would return many years later to
give a talk —’”
Corn, you know! She said, “Well, that’s pretty good, but why don’t you
put it more
briefly?” You know — she didn’t have any idea. By this time I knew I
could give
lectures, you know, that I was successful at giving talks. And so when I
finally went there
and gave the talk, everybody was excited. It was a good talk and
everything else, my
parents were grinning and beaming from ear to ear, they were proud of
me, and
everything was quite a lot of fun. But — oh, there are a number of other
little things that
happened that I begin to remember, which are all in between. But let me
try to just
remember the key word, “Tolman,” and then I’ll come back. So, I gave
those kinds of
talks at that time. And then I thought pessimistically. In the meantime,
like many other
people, you just gradually get to live with it, and you forget the
pessimistic view. Possibly
the thing is so bad they’ll never use it, but I don’t know.
Weiner:
Were you involved at this time in any of the scientist groups that were
taking a role in
the politics of the thing, about civilian or military control?
Feynman:
Well, not so much. I limited myself to giving lectures to citizens and
other groups
whenever I was asked. But there was one thing I was involved in, and
that involves
Tolman, and I’ll mention what it was. I got a telephone call, when I was
on a vacation
from Cornell for two days or a weekend or something at my home in New
York, in Far
Rockaway. Tolman called me and said that they had to write rather
quickly a thing for
the UN, disclosure of information about atomic energy for a commission
of the UN that
was worried about it. It was early, right after the war. The United
States was going to tell
the United Nations what it knew about atomic energy, so that they could
make their
deliberations as to what kinds of international problems would be
involved and so on.
OK? It was an important thing.
Weiner:
You had known Tolman at Los Alamos?
Feynman:
Yes. And he couldn’t find anybody else to help him in this emergency.
Somebody had to
write this. They had somebody else writing about all the plants and the
separations, how
many mines there were and how much uranium there was in the world, how
much
fluorine there was in the world, and what there was. Someone wrote a
little bit, I think,
about the technical problem of mining and smelting, or whatever it is.
79
Weiner:
Oh, yes, this was a multi-volume report —
Feynman:
It wasn’t so very big. It wasn’t so very big. It was a report given. And
then there was a
section — they had about three parts — there was a section which was
sort of the
physics of the bomb, how the thing worked, the nuclear reactions, the
whole business
about neutrons, fission, and why you need uranium, why you need thorium
and so on,
and I was supposed to write that. Of course, as you know, I’m not a good
writer. I’m just
telling, again, an amusing story, because it was really very exciting. I
came in, I guess it
was on either Saturday or Sunday, to do this, and I came into the office
in the Empire
State Building, and he told me what I had to do. There were two girls
sitting in two
chairs, and he said, “They’ll be the secretaries for you to do this.”
There was tremendous
pressure. It had to be done in two days, or one day. OK? So I said, “Why
two?” “One
will look up things for research for you. We have big files. And the
other one will take
dictation, while the first one runs around looking up facts.” “I don’t
need the facts.”
Because I knew, the physics is simple. For a guy that has to find out
about mines, he
needs somebody to look up how much production is in the Belgian Congo in
1952, but
this stuff, I knew inside out, you know, on the level I had to do it. So
I only needed one.
I said, “You can forget about the other one.” Then I said, “I don’t
need…” You see, this
is pressure. This shows you what I can do under pressure. It was very
exciting, what I
could do under pressure. I said to the other secretary, “Sit out here.
I’m going in the
office and think.” The only way I knew how to do this was to give a
speech. You see, I
could give a speech. I knew what the problem was. I went in and made up
a speech. I
prepared it as if I was going to give a speech, see, and I made an
outline, and I went back
and forth over the various possible sentences, just as if the speech was
to be complete
with a dramatic — this and that, you know, everything all organized just
like a speech.
Weiner:
Then you wrote it out? Or wrote an outline?
Feynman:
I made little notes, as if I were going to give it. I was prepared to
walk out and give a
speech to 150 people, on this subject, you see. So when I was completely
prepared to
give the speech, I called her in, and started to dictate. I just kept
right on going. All the
things, from the beginning to end, all organized, you see. I got a great
reputation around
there. Tolman kept telling me, afterwards, that the secretary couldn’t
get over it, that
nobody could get over it. I got rid of the researcher, and I gave this
whole thing from
beginning to end, smoothly and everything. So, anyhow, the thing that
impressed me
about this was the following. First, after I had written it, it was sent
to Bacher, because
80
he was supposed to have his name on it as co-author. The reason is that
Feynman was
not an important enough name for such an important document. That’s all
right. So they
sent it to Bacher and he made some corrections and suggestions. But the
more
important thing was this. The question of secrecy — what could we tell,
what not tell —
Tolman told me to write it without worrying about that question, and
they would worry
about the questions afterwards. So I wrote it without worrying about
that question. But
when I organize something, ideas, it’s locked together, you know, like
nobody’s business.
And I had heard that they were talking about the mining of thorium and
the mining of
uranium. So what the hell do you use thorium for? I explained about what
you can make
with thorium. Then also, a very important problem, it seemed to me,
that’s associated
with the resources and everything else, is that it’s possible to make a
breeder that doesn’t
just use the uranium 235, but keeps up using the uranium 238. That’s
important you
know. So I explained how that works see, because I was told not to worry
about it. I
worked the whole thing out. Then comes the question, should this or that
be included or
not? I argued, it better be included, because it’s pretty obvious. I
mean anybody who
knows his physics will be able to figure it out, what thorium is good
for. Further, if you
take — (and Bacher, in fact, argued) — if you take any of this out, it’s
so completely
organized that there will be big obvious holes in the middle of the
thing. You could see
the holes, I don’t mean in the physics but in the logic. Anyway, the way
the decision was
made struck me as a very interesting thing for a guy like me to learn. A
telephone call to
Groves. Groves says, “No. Take it out.” There was a little bit of
conversation, and that’s
it. The problem was presented to Groves, and he gave his answer in one —
it couldn’t
have been more than a few minutes. Now, the problem was far more
important and far
more vital than that, because it involved the posture of the United
States toward the
other nations. How does it look? You claim to give this information,
you’re going to give
information, and you present this information. You must be very careful
about how it
looks — how honest you look, and so on. And the decision to leave it
out, or not to
leave it out, what subjects to talk to other nations about, what other
subjects not to talk
to other nations about, is made by one man in a few minutes. And ever
since then, I’ve
had a much better idea how government works, and what the hell’s the
matter with it. I
mean, that those things that are vital to be decided are decided too
easily. I mean, it’s
great that a man can decide so quickly. So can a die decide quickly?
It’s just — it’s bad. It
was a very serious thing. And I found out later that just what I guessed
would happen,
happened. Morrison, Phil Morrison happened to be there at the time, and
he didn’t
know I wrote this.
Weiner:
Where? At the UN meeting?
Feynman:
Yeah. And then it was presented, and Joliot asked the question, “What’s
the thorium
for?” No, somebody else asked the question, “What’s the thorium for?”
And Joliot said,
81
“Oh, they don’t want to tell us. But I’ll tell you, I can figure it out.
I can guess” — and
then he explained it correctly. Like at the meeting, in two minutes! He
explained it
correctly. And the whole attitude was: “Hah, hah, hah!” The United
States was going to
disclose — hah, hah! You know, it was a big careful presentation — we
will now give
you copies. And it wasn’t there. They read it overnight, and they asked
questions in the
morning. So Morrison said that’s what happened, and I told him I wrote
it, but that’s not
my fault. And the breeder came out pretty soon. You know. It’s just
obvious possibility.
We hadn’t actually made one. Nobody had. So altogether I didn’t care for
the way those
things were handled, and I still don’t because I presume that decisions
are always made,
almost always made, in that light fashion. There are an awful lot of
light decisions of
historical importance.
Weiner:
Heavy decisions made in light fashion —
Feynman:
That’s what I meant. That’s what I meant, yeah. Made not exactly light —
he may have
sweated when he did it—but it’s not made in a careful way. I don’t know,
it just didn’t
smell right to me. It smelled like this was a more important matter, and
required a little
more brains than a quick telephone call. Anyhow. That was
disillusioning.
Weiner:
This was very soon after that first year —
Feynman:
Very soon. I’ve got you right back to the beginning now. Right after the
war. Also, I had
another amusing thing right after the war — just amusing. I got a
telephone call from
somebody in California, at my home. Some big airplane company. I don’t
remember
which one it was. I can’t recall. The guy gets on the phone -– “Is this
Mr. Feynman?”
“Yes.” And he starts out. He starts to describe his airplane company.
And he tells me
that they’re going to make nuclear-powered airplanes — a project, see —
and how many
people they’re going to have, and how much money there’s going to be. I
interrupt him
every now and then, “Are you talking to the right guy? Do you know what
you’re talking
about? What do you want?” He says, “Just let me say what I want to say.
Is this Mr.
Feynman, Richard Feynman?” I said, “Yeah.” “The man that was at Los
Alamos?”
“Yeah.” “OK” — so it goes on. And it’s nothing but how many men are
going to be
involved, how much money is going to be involved all kinds of details.
Half an hour.
And to me this was a shock, because he was calling from California. I
didn’t have much
money, and this seemed to me terrible. So finally he shoved it out and
he says, “We want
to know if you will be director of this division of our company?” So I
say, “You’ve got
82
the wrong guy. There’s something the matter here. What made you think
that I should
be director?” He says, “Because you have the patents on these. Isn’t
your name on the
patents for these things?” I say, “Yes, but that’s all right, I won’t be
the director.” My
name is on the patents for certain rockets and so on. Shall I tell you
how it got there,
though?
Weiner:
Yes.
Feynman:
I don’t know if you want all these amusing stories, but they’re all part
of life and so —
When I was at Los Alamos, I became more or less friendly with the man in
patents,
Captain Robert…, can’t remember now — the guy who’s head of the Patent
Office. You
see, if anybody thought of anything, he was supposed to give it to the
government as a
patent, you know, and the government should protect itself against
making a mistake and
leaving something open. So one day the guy who’s the head of the Patent
Office sends
to everybody a note saying, “If you think of anything, even though you
may thing that
it’s already covered, please let us know, because you have no way to
know if it’s already
covered. We would like to make sure the government has the patents on
all these things
and nobody can make a big profit out of our work.” So I saw him at
lunch, and on the
way back, when we got back, I said, “Listen, that thing that you sent
around — if you
really meant that, why you’d be deluged with crazy things!” He said,
“Come into my
office, please, and tell me, what.” So I said, “There’s an infinite
number of obvious
applications.” He said, “Like what?” “Submarines.” “Huh?” “The water
comes into the
uranium, which is just above critical, and the water makes it critical,
it makes heat, boils
over, steam goes out the back end — zooooom! See? Rocket.” Then I told
him how —
hydrogen gas, stick it through the uranium, burns out, heat production
other end —
zooop! Then I said, “Purified uranium” — I say –- “you mix it with
beryllium —
purified uranium, not necessarily a big —” He says, “Piles are covered?”
I say, “No, no.
Not with ordinary uranium, but partly purified uranium 235, with a
higher percentage
than normal put in the thing, makes a big reactor, heat.” I said, “There
are a million of
them, things like that,” and I walk out of the office. See, I was
telling him, there were a
thousand things —
Weiner:
— he hadn’t thought of that?
Feynman:
No, he was right, you see. Everybody thought all this was obvious. So
when I came back,
one day he calls me, “Come in, I want to talk to you.” I come in the
office and he says,
83
“The submarine is already taken, but the purified uranium reactor and
the rocket engine
is yours —” I think it was because my name was somehow on the rocket
engine that
these guys, who were trying to do this, got a look at these hidden
patents and figured,
“This is our man,” see. So that’s what happened. So I could have been
the leader of a
great project.
Weiner:
Talking about this idea of being a consultant or, you know, working for
industry, other
than the early experiences in Metaplast Corporation, summer work and so
forth, have
you had any other offers or have you done any work?
Feynman:
I’ve had many offers, but I’ve never done any work for industry to speak
of. Very little
that I can remember. Maybe one or two tiny things. I do go to Hughes
Aircraft
Company to teach physics, to give lectures once a week to their
engineering and
scientific staff.
Weiner:
That’s the origin of that wild picture.
Feynman:
Yes. That’s right. That’s all. Oh, I did one little tiny, very minor
consulting job for the
gas company.
Weiner:
In California?
Feynman:
Yeah. They just wanted me to criticize a report that somebody had made
predicting what
the gas reserves will be in the year 1985. And, of course, people were
beginning to
believe the prediction, and they thought that it was not good. It was
done by
mathematics, by some formulas, and they needed somebody with a
mathematical
reputation to say that this is no way to do it. It isn’t a good way. It
wasn’t. It was absurd.
So I wrote that it was absurd. Little things like that.
Weiner:
84
Yes.
Feynman:
Oh, I did something on a moving picture on time for the Bell Telephone
Co. I mean,
they were the sponsors for an advertising agency, for Warner Bros. I
really worked
directly with Warner Bros., who were making the film for an advertising
agency for Bell
Telephone Co., on time. The name of the film ultimately was, “It’s about
Time.” The
reason I take these consulting jobs is because they’re different. I
don’t take a consulting
job that involves science more or less directly. The gas company thing
was fun because it
was cockeyed, and it would be interesting to know what they worry about
in the gas
business. In the movie thing it was the same. You get inside the studio,
see how they
make movies, and see how they work — the writers, the director, all that
stuff.
Weiner:
What did you have to do for the movie? What did they want to know?
Feynman:
Well, it was a scientific movie. It’s about time.
Weiner:
One of the Bell Science Series? Fine programs.
Feynman:
Yes, that’s right. So first I had to plan what could be in such a movie.
I wrote a report,
and the writers there tried to put it in, and I would correct it, and so
on. It was a lot of
work but it wasn’t particularly good. But it was very’ much fun. So I do
consulting jobs
of various kinds for the fun of it.
Weiner:
Now, at Cornell, we got onto some of these talks, and sidelights. We’ve
talked a bit
about the teaching at Cornell —
Feynman:
— the school, how I liked it.
Weiner:
85
Yes, and relationships with the faculty and things in general.
Feynman:
The worst thing is the weather there. I mean, the weather bothered me.
Finally, it was a
day on which it was cold and raining and slushy. It had suddenly become
that way. My
car was beginning to skid, and I had to put chains on in the cold. I was
trying to tighten
those little clamps on the inside of the tire, and my hands were cold
and the pressure
hurt when I tried to push them. And I said to myself: “This is crazy!”
So I decided —
that was kind of a deciding moment — to get out of that part of the
world. But
altogether, other things always add to it. You see, I’m a one-sided
fellow. I understand
and love the sciences. But there are many fields of intellectual things
that I don’t really
go for, like literature, psychology, philosophy, and so on, unless it’s
done in a very sort of
scientific way. I’m very one-sided. I’m not a wide guy, only very wide
in the sciences, but
very much in the sciences and limited. So I found that place quite
dilute. There were a
few people who were interesting, like a man — Griffin I think his name
is — in biology,
the guy who discovered that bats use radar and was now doing something
with seagulls
and fish noises. See, he was fun. Of course, there were the people in
physics and
chemistry that were fun. But we were like islands surrounded by a mass
of guys who — I
don’t know how to say it. To me, they were like mediocre, difficult.
They didn’t make
good sense. They weren’t interesting. It isn’t exactly that the subjects
weren’t interesting,
because I can find, like, history of the Aztecs and the Incas, and so
on, fascinating. But
somehow or other, these guys weren’t — I don’t know how to explain it.
In addition to
which, the student body is diluted to such a pitch by all kinds of
things. Like they have
home economics. They have lots of girls studying home economics, and
it’s supposed to
be a university! If I compared the work and the care and the thought
that goes into what
I ask of my physics students to get a degree, to the nonsense which is
all some little silly
girl has to do to get a degree in home economics — and I knew precisely
what it was,
because I had girlfriends and they would ask me questions and I knew
what they were
doing — I began to get disgusted with the dilution. I couldn’t find good
students, except
in physics. You understand what I mean? I was surrounded — a little
isolated. I mean,
there was only one interesting biologist, the philosophers were just
crazy, and the
psychology department was decrepit because they had been dominated by
some guy who
had measured temperature points on the skin. That was the level at which
they were. The
psychology students would talk all the time to me in the cafeteria. I
was the only guy that
would give them any advice. For instance, I would tell them a thing like
this. A student
would by worrying. She did something with a rat maze which showed one
thing, and she
wants to change one of the conditions to see if it has this effect; so
that’s what she’s
doing. I said, “But first you must do the other experiment with the
other condition to
make sure that your rats do the same thing. Then when you change the
thing, you’ll
make sure -– “There’s some discussion as to why, and then a conviction,
and then finally
she marches off with glee. Of course she has to do this; it’s perfectly
obvious. She tells
her teacher and the teacher says, “No, no, to do that would only be
repeating the other
86
work. And that’s not right. You shouldn’t waste the time. You must not
do that.” And
so on. Well, I got sick and tired of such a place. You know, all over
there was this kind
of — You try to do something, try to explain something to somebody,
something
sensible, and you always get dumbness back. Resistance. Dopiness of all
kinds. It was a
morass. I couldn’t stand it. See, I liked to meet all the people. I’d go
with the students,
and I’d eat in the cafeteria and so on. But, there was nothing but
dopiness. Well, that’s all
right if you’re talking to the secretary, but it’s not all right if
you’re talking to the students
or the professors. And so that bothered me. Caltech I find, for my own
particular
personality, very much better because there are so many science
departments and the
people are very active. They have the same way of thinking as I do. And
so I get a great
deal of pleasure. I can talk to them in biology, in astronomy, and all
the different fields
without trouble. And if I happen to sit next to any student in the
cafeteria and ask him
about his work or talk to him about anything, I don’t get any of this
feeling. The odds
that I’ll get into something where I meet a dope, a dunce — I mean, not
a dunce, but
somebody who doesn’t talk the way I talk and think the way I think — are
very long.
Weiner:
So this is your kind of place.
Feynman:
This is my kind of a place.
Weiner:
You had that feeling when you came out here?
Feynman:
Yeah. I was trying to get away from the university, from the fact that
they study
everything. I didn’t want to go to a place that had all this stuff. See,
it’s all right — they
have animal husbandry, they have a hotel school — if they have all these
things. It’s
important to have these schools, but to mix it up is crazy. You see,
there are so many
other kinds of students. You start to talk to one and it turns out he’s
interested in the
hotel business. It’s nothing wrong. I don’t mind the guy that’s
interested in the hotel
business, but I have to expect that I’ll be talking to a guy that’s
interested in the hotel
business! Let me put it differently. He’s interested in the hotel
business, but he’s studying
it as if it’s physics, for four years. Huh? You know, he’s making a big
deal about the hotel
business!
Weiner:
So that’s what it meant. You knew, when you were leaving Cornell, that
this close
87
relationship you had with Bethe would be —
Feynman:
Yes. That was hard. Yes, that was a negative pressure. Actually, it was
very difficult to
leave. I was balanced. In fact, I made the joke at the time — you know
the one about the
donkey that’s between two piles of hay, exactly in the middle of two
equal piles of hay?
Which way should he go, hm? With the one complication that every time
the donkey
moved toward one pile of hay, the pile on the other side grew bigger.
What they would
do is, each time I would kind of lean one way or the other and write a
letter explaining
why I think maybe I ought to go to Caltech, and then at Cornell they’d
fix something.
Oh, I know why I was talking about these lectures. I’ll have to come
back to it. I had
intended to go to Brazil for a year, for a certain reason which I’ll
come back to, and my
sabbatical was just coming up. And so I finally got the solution to the
problem — I
mean, of the two. If I go to Caltech, I lose the sabbatical year; I have
this year in Brazil,
and so on. You see? So I got a letter from Caltech saying, “We will hire
you, and then
the first year give you, free, a sabbatical year, and a leave of absence
with pay.” Half pay,
I guess, for a half year. On the other hand, I thought, no, because
maybe I will stay in
Brazil forever, which is something I’m thinking of. They wrote back:
“That’s OK with
us.” So I was done. So I went to Caltech.
Weiner:
You mean, they were willing to take a chance?
Feynman:
Yeah, they were willing to take a chance. So that’s why. I remember now,
I was talking
about these lectures and my feeling about the bomb, because I was trying
to lead up to
the idea that I wanted to go to Brazil. This same business with the bomb
and this
pessimism kept with me for several years and, by 1950, I still was
pessimistic about the
world and was pretty sure that I had it right, that nobody was getting
anywhere and we
were all going around in circles and that we were going to have trouble.
Then when we’d
have trouble with Russia and so on, we’d bomb each other out, and the
Northern
Hemisphere would be in a bad way. A lot of the Northern Hemisphere. And
the people
that are most advanced scientifically will have been killed off. And so,
right or wrong, I
got the idea that the traditions of science are not — they’re fragile.
The traditions of
scientific thought. I don’t believe they’re fragile. I think they’re
very fragile, and easily
lost, and that science really has a value. The viewpoint that’s
involved, the objectivity, the
way of doing things is valuable, see? So I thought it was of value, and
that it might be
destroyed. It could be destroyed because maybe people without this
tradition would be
the only ones left that would have any power. See? So I figured, I’ve
got to go
somewhere where they don’t have the tradition, where they’re not likely
to get involved,
88
you see, to help develop a sort of strong scientific tradition there, or
at least make one
step in that direction. And so then I got an opportunity to go to
Brazil. I thought,
somewhere in South America. I thought first of Ecuador, but I didn’t
know much about
how bad the situation was. I didn’t realize that it was worse than I
could imagine. And so
I ultimately went to Brazil for a year. I was invited to Brazil first
for six weeks, and I
went just to see.
Weiner:
By whom, by a university?
Feynman:
By a center in Brazil. In Rio they had a Brazilian center for physical
research, the Centro
Brasileiro de Resquiisas Fisicas. Actually, I got invited because I was
sitting next to a man
named Tiando, who came from Brazil, at a Physics Society meeting. I told
him that I was
thinking of going to South America. He said, “Come to Brazil,” and he
arranged this
invitation. So I went there for six weeks and was delighted — with
Brazil, the music, the
life on the beach, the teaching problems, and the university. And there
was this little
center trying to develop and so on. It was just right.
Weiner:
When did you go for six weeks?
Feynman:
I guess it was 1950.
Weiner:
This pessimism is despite the fact that you knew that you had done first
rate scientific
work that —
Feynman:
— it was pessimism about the world.
Weiner:
I know, but I’m saying that it wasn’t countered by the personal
satisfaction.
Feynman:
89
Oh, of course not. I don’t think so, no.
Weiner:
There’s no reason why it should have been.
Feynman:
No. No, not that I know of. No. No.
Weiner:
So you went on this six week job.
Feynman:
Yes, and then after that I went to Caltech. Somewhere I got invited to
go there for ten
months, by the State Department Point Four Programs. So I went down
there for ten
months and taught physics, and then came back here and went to Caltech.
Weiner:
They paid for that year?
Feynman:
I think so — half pay for that year, yeah.
Weiner:
That was what brings me to —
Feynman:
Oh, I think I didn’t take the offer. Oh no, I know what I did. I saved
the money, so that
if I stayed there I wouldn’t have taken it. Some crazy thing.
Weiner:
So you could return it?
Feynman:
90
Some say — I don’t know what I did, some crazy thing.
Weiner:
But at the end of the ten months?
Feynman:
I was here.
Weiner:
Whatever happened to that pessimism?
Feynman:
It’s gradually disappeared. More or less. Not disappeared, but been more
or less
forgotten. Not exactly disappeared. I don’t know what the situation is
now. It doesn’t
look as bad. But that may be because of the usual — you know, you’ve got
a threat that
hangs. It’s like the sword that hung by a string over the guy in the
book by Edgar Allen
Poe.
Weiner:
In Brazil, you’re out of touch with your colleagues, though.
Feynman:
Yeah. That’s one of the letters, you see — Fermi.
Weiner:
Because you say in the letter — now, here’s where — what you wrote —
Feynman:
Well, from the letter you can get the idea, then, damn it, when I’m in
Brazil.
Weiner:
Oh. Yeah.
91
Feynman:
I returned to Brazil altogether five, six times.
Weiner:
Since then — on vacation?
Feynman:
Vacations. Summers. Go up there, and everything.
Weiner:
Now, you wrote this December 19, 1951, from Rio. You wrote it by hand.
Let me just
read part of it. I think it’s very interesting, this first paragraph:
“Dear Fermi:” How come
you call him Fermi?
Feynman:
Oh, everybody calls him Fermi!
Weiner:
OK. That’s his name. “Being thousands of miles away, I have only heard
by amateur
radio from friends in the U.S. that you are doing experiments in meson
scattering from
protons. I don’t know what your theoretical friends are saying, so I
would like to make
some comments, at the risk of only saying what is obvious to everybody
in the U.S.” Let
me just read the beginning of the next paragraph, to give you an idea —
I won’t read it
because it’s ten pages. “To begin with, I am of the opinion that
Yukawa’s meson theory,
with pseudo-scalar mesons gradient coupling, is wrong, or at least
useless, in its present
form, because at least perturbation theory is n.g. and otherwise
divergences cloud the
issue. But I think mesons are pseudo-scalar and I think the amplitude
that a nucleon
emits just one may be proportional to —” Then you go on and get into the
whole
argument. The interesting thing about it is that then you say to him
that you’re writing to
Bethe about this. Yeah, you make that point somewhere in there — and you
ask him
along in the letter: “Does anyone in the U.S. know about this?” So
you’re anxious to
keep up.
Feynman:
I don’t really care if anybody in the U.S. knows about it, frankly. I’m
sure that all I care
about is that I’m not saying something that he knows already.
92
Weiner:
I see.
Feynman:
That’s really all I was worried about. Here I’m writing as if I’d
discovered something
important, and I have to act a little modest, you see, because maybe
everybody already
knows it. I think that’s what I was thinking. I’ve always had an
independent view. I don’t
care if somebody else thinks of something I think of, except when I talk
to someone
somewhere else. Then I don’t want to act as if I’m the only guy that
could think of such
a thing. It turns out that people in the U.S. were doing a lot better
job of thinking than I
was.
Weiner:
Well, you had some information. Then you end up, you say, “So I am, with
this letter to
you and one to Bethe, giving up Yukawa’s idea 1934, and am going to the
Copacabana
Beach to see if I can get one of my own. I get lots of ideas at the
beach. Merry
Christmas.” That’s enough. I think what you did say, somewhere in the
letter, was that if
he cares to, he can make a copy and distribute it. Now, was this a way
of making up for
lack of meeting together, and groups? Obviously it was.
Feynman:
Well, I don’t know.
Weiner:
Do you remember the circumstances of hearing on amateur radio?
Feynman:
Oh, yeah, I was in amateur radio communication with the United States
every week.
Weiner:
Through a friend?
Feynman:
Through a friend. Through a blind fellow, by code, at Brazil, with the
radio station at
Caltech, at which there were friends of mine, a student of mine, who
would tell me
93
things. They asked about the blind fellow, and found, decided that in
code it was too
slow, you know, too difficult, and he found somebody who had a
transmitter with voice.
I would talk on that, which is illegal because I haven’t got a license,
and the guy used to
always introduce me by false call letters. He’d say, “Listen, W6J17 is
visiting us,” or
something like that, “and he wants to talk to you.” “OK, W6JY17” — we
just made up
the letters — and then I would talk. I would ask some questions on the
situation, you
know, data, usually from Caltech, and so on. I worked out a number of
problems down
there. I also worked out a problem of nuclear physics. I felt that the
time was ripe to
understand the light nuclei, the level system of the light nuclei.
Weiner:
This was being worked on at Caltech, actually.
Feynman:
Experimentally. And I took down all the data that I had, when I went
down there, and I
got this theoretical thing, which turned out — it was really quite close
to being right. It
was one of these other things I should have published. But I wasn’t
quite satisfied, see.
Anyhow, I had this system, which is very similar to what’s done today,
much later — not
today, today they’ve gone further, but at that time — well, say four
years ago. This was
many years earlier. Oh, I guess I was five or ten years ahead. I worked
out this stuff to
predict the levels of nuclei. And Lauritsen was always amused by it,
because this guy
would come to him, this fellow on the radio business would come to him
and say,
“Could it be that hydrogen 16 has two levels very close together, at the
lowest state, not
just a single level?” Or, “Could it be that such and such a level is not
correct spin, but is
something else?” He was always amused by this crazy guy down there in
Brazil. He knew
what it was, of course. But it sounded so special — you know, like you
picked the
nucleus out of thin air and asked about it. It turned out I was right
about it, that the
magnitude of 16 had three levels, as a matter of fact, very close to the
ground level, and
it turned out my theory wouldn’t always predict it. I would get into
trouble. I couldn’t fit
the data unless there was a coincidence that the lowest state of
hydrogen 16 was double,
very close together. And that was very amusing, because it turned out
later to be right,
but at the time they thought it wasn’t right. So I had something pretty
good. I was able
to predict a number of truths. But I wasn’t myself satisfied. I had a
number of
parameters, a pretty big number. I wasn’t too convinced that the thing
wasn’t an
accident, and I never published it. But the methods and the ideas used
are right. But I
never published it, and so nobody knows that I did all this, except
Lauritsen.
Weiner:
This was part of the work done in the ten month period of Brazil.
94
Feynman:
It was that ten month period. The trouble is, see, I went to Brazil
several times. But I
believe it was that ten month period.
Weiner:
Well, during the one in ‘51, you were writing to Fermi on this other
work. He replied to
you —
Feynman:
This must have been the ten months, because it wasn’t the summer time.
It was in
December. It says so, December. So that must have been. Now, the radio —
that must
also have been the ten month period. I’m trying to remember. Yes,
definitely, because I
remember the papers in the room and I know which hotel I was in.
Weiner:
It says what hotel, on the paper —
Feynman:
Miramar.
Weiner:
Yes, the Miramar Palace Hotel, Copacabana.
Feynman:
Yes. Boy, I loved that! Yeah, that was fun.
Weiner:
This is where you lived? You lived in the hotel?
Feynman:
Yes. That was great. I also taught physics in the university,
electricity and magnetism.
University of Brazil. I also taught engineering in the engineering
school. I taught
mathematical methods of physics.
95
Weiner:
In English?
Feynman:
No, in Portuguese.
Weiner:
When did you learn Portuguese?
Feynman:
Well, when I thought to go to South America somewhere, I thought I’d
better learn the
language first. I didn’t know where I was going. And there were two
languages, Spanish
and Portuguese. But they had a good language teacher in Cornell, with a
new method, a
language laboratory they called it. So I picked Spanish, because more
countries spoke
Spanish than Portuguese. When the first day of classes began, I was
walking into the
class. The cutest young, beautiful, blonde kid — just cute, a student —
was walking right
in front of me, and she was headed for Portuguese class. I said, “The
hell with it, why
should I do Spanish? I’ll learn Portuguese.” See? And I started — but I
said, “Listen,
that’s no way to make such decisions,” and I went back to the Spanish
class. Then my
first chance to go to South America was in Brazil, which is Portuguese.
So I made a
mistake. I should have followed the blonde. Anyhow, I learned Spanish in
that class, and
then when I found I was going to Brazil, I found the man, whose name
unfortunately I
don’t remember, in the psychology department, who was from Portugal. In
a few weeks
he taught me Portuguese, based on the Spanish. I simply converted my
newly learned
Spanish by mispronouncing to Portuguese. I learned Portuguese that way.
It was very
poor Portuguese, but it was something. So I came down to Brazil speaking
Portuguese,
after a very crude fashion. It turns out that technical Portuguese is
much easier than you
think. You have to learn a couple of tricks, like “tion” becomes “cao,”
so that
“radiation” becomes “habiacao” — you know, you just mispronounce the
vowels in a
certain specific way, and so on. So the longest words are easy, and it’s
a simple one, like
“blue sky” or something, that’s impossible. So I found I could do it, at
the beginning,
and I spoke Portuguese from the beginning in my lectures.
Weiner:
Did you feel isolated there? Was there anybody on your level, in
physics, that you could
really talk with?
Feynman:
96
No. But they were pretty good. There was Leili Lopes who was pretty
good, and we did
a lot of research together. I would explain to him what we were doing,
and he’d explain
back and argue and so on. It was not impossible, and we got along pretty
well. We did
some work on the meson theory and deuterons, and showed that the meson
theory
didn’t give the right answer for the forces for the deuterons. That was
discovered — that
work we published a little bit of. But that was discovered later by
Levy, who was
supposed to have solved the problem with forces from meson theory. But
he didn’t
really; so finally he caught up with us or at least with some of what we
did.
Weiner:
You wrote to Fermi in this case — I just happened to stumble across it —
Feynman:
Because I was interested in the problem, and I heard he’d done the
experiments, so I
wrote to him.
Weiner:
But evidently you didn’t have too much data.
Feynman:
I got data from Lauritsen, from radio.
Weiner:
And you were in contact with Bethe.
Feynman:
I wrote a letter to him. I don’t know that I was in much contact. No, I
don’t remember
— no, I don’t think I wrote lots of letters all over the United States —
no, I just wrote to
Fermi.
Weiner:
Did you have a good time there?
Feynman:
Oh, yeah. It was great. I had a great time there. That was a pretty good
period of time.
97
Weiner:
When did you make up your mind that you were going to definitely go
back, to take up
the new post at Caltech?
Feynman:
I don’t know. I guess when I got to realizing what the real situation
was in Brazil, or
something, and gradually became more — I don’t know what happened to my
ideas. See,
these plans were made earlier. I had a year to learn the language and so
on. So I think
that I was gradually changing, maybe for the reason you say, that I was
becoming
successful, or for whatever reason. Anyway, I took the problem less
seriously, that part
of the problem. I’ve always done what I could for Brazilian science, but
I don’t think…
It’s gone down backward now, because of political difficulties. My
experiences in
teaching in Brazil were very interesting, and I learned a lot about
science in Brazil, and
gave lectures on it, and so forth and so on, but it’s getting beyond the
range of what you
want.
Weiner:
Have you ever published anything about your experiences there?
Feynman:
Only one thing; I did write an article on teaching science in Latin
America.
Weiner:
Where was that published? I’d like to look it up some time.
Feynman:
I can give you a copy. My best published is Engineering and Science
Magazine. They
publish all these little articles. It was a speech given. I was invited
to come to a
conference on teaching science in Latin America, and to be the keynote
speaker at this
conference, that people from all over Latin America came to. And so I
talked about
teaching science in Latin America and described what I thought was the
trouble with it,
as the keynote speaker. But I gave a much better speech at the end of
the ten months,
when I was in Brazil, as to what I found. That was really sensational.
Weiner:
What?
98
Feynman:
Well, it’s a long thing. Shall I tell you about it?
Weiner:
Well, it’s up to you. It’s late, so whether you want to get started on
that, or not —
Feynman:
Well, we can go on forever. I’m a very complicated man. I mean, I’ve got
all kinds of
side things, infinite amounts of them. So it’s up to you to make up your
mind what
pieces of me you want to cut off, because if you don’t cut off some,
you’re going to get
more stuff than you can swallow.
Weiner:
Yeah. Well, I think maybe on that I would settle for the article, take a
look at the article,
you know.
Feynman:
Well, I’ll tell you, if you want, the experiences from which I derive
the information as to
what science was like in Brazil. One thing, though, that would be worth
mentioning —
at the time I also taught quantum mechanics at the center, or somewhere;
once, when I
was in Brazil, somewhere I taught quantum mechanics. And I had a few
students from
different places. It’s the only time that I taught that I really felt
satisfied by the teaching.
When I teach here and other places — I get a kind of frustration, which
is the following.
If the student does well, you don’t know that it’s you that taught him;
he may be a good
student, so to speak. Other people have taught him, and so on. And if he
does well later
in his research, you don’t know whether you did anything, or whether he
did it himself
and so on, or other teachers afterwards. If he doesn’t do very well you
feel, well, the
students aren’t doing well, and you get frustrated, right? So I never
get a feeling, in
teaching in the graduate school. Even when I have them as research
students, I can
never see what I did, if anything.
Weiner:
It’s hard to measure.
Feynman:
99
Right. I don’t know what I did. But when I went down there, these guys
came from a
vacuum. They came from Argentina, and they had never learned anything,
but they
studied on their own. Then I teach them quantum mechanics, and now they
know
quantum mechanics, and they never knew anything about it before. It’s
small time
teaching — a smaller group. You know the student, and you can see what
you do to the
student. And two of the students that I had in that class, at least two
— two of them
from Argentina, though there are others too, but I’m not sure — have
turned out to be
very effective young physicists. They do good work, and I see their
papers published
every once in a while. One is Sirene and the other one is Amati. That’s
a pleasure,
because I know that I had a lot to do with those students.
Weiner:
Don’t you get this feeling about any of your other students, at Cornell
or Caltech?
Feynman:
No. Just between us, I don’t know what it means at this level. I have
never had a good
student that hasn’t disappointed me in some way. I’ve put a lot of
energy into the
students, but I think I wreck them, somehow.
Weiner:
Then at the same time you said you couldn’t tell, you don’t know.
Feynman:
What I mean is, I’ve never had a student that I’ve felt that I did
something good for. In
fact, I don’t think I’ve had very good… I don’t think I do very well.
For instance, like
Oppenheimer is a teacher. He had a group of students, he had some way of
running
them, and he had 30 graduate students, and there are many famous
physicists who are
known as Oppenheimer’s students, because they are. They learned their
damned stuff
from him, in the graduate school — from him indirectly. He worked in
some indirect
way; I don’t know how the hell he did it. There are people who are
Sommerfeld’s
students, no? Famous guys that are Sommerfeld’s students and they know
that they
learned that crap from Sommerfeld, somehow. I don’t feel that way about
anybody that I
had as a student.
Weiner:
These are all earlier periods that you’re referring to. Oppenheimer’s
teaching days were a
lot earlier.
100
Feynman:
Yes, earlier, but what difference does it make? I can list the students,
an every one of
them mediocre guys, somehow failures, some way or other. Now, there were
a few
students who were good, but they didn’t get in too close a contact with
me. There’s one
good one — yes, it’s not true. I have one good student, one more
example, somebody
that I know I did something for, and his name is — there’s another one
of these idiot
blocks. Berman. Sam Berman. And his story is also similar to Amati and
the other guy,
you see? If they come to me clean, I’m all right. He was a saxophone
player; I think it is,
in a band in Florida. And he married the singer of the band and so on,
you know, this
kind of a guy. Then he decided one day that this field isn’t very good,
because he didn’t
get a job; but the boss of the night club’s nephew got it — something
like that. He
decided this is a hell of a business and decided to go into something
else. And he took
up physics. I don’t know why he picked physics. And so he started to
study physics, and
he went very rapidly. He got to the graduate school fast. But he wasn’t
very educated,
you know what I mean? He didn’t know a great deal. But he was a very
smart man.
Then, when he was a graduate student, I was his teacher, for his
research and so on, and
then I taught him. So I know that I made a difference. I mean, he is one
of the
characters and he does good work. So that’s OK. I guess the secret is
they have to come
to me without somebody else rooking them first or something.
Weiner:
And you have to have the feeling that he’s your student.
Feynman:
I guess so. Otherwise I don’t believe in it. Yeah. Otherwise I don’t
know who the hell
did it. Or something.
Weiner:
It’s five till twelve. I really think, whether we know it or not, we’ve
been going a long
time, and maybe this is the logical time to break.
Feynman:
Yeah. Just let me finish with students. I’ll think of some more
students. Most of them
are some kind of failures. The guys from Cornell — but that’s the same.
They’re Bethe’s
students, too; and they’re no good either.
Weiner:
Bethe has a reputation for being a good lecturer.
101
Feynman:
He’s a good lecturer, but he has the same trouble I have. I’ll bet if we
sat down together
and looked at our students, we wouldn’t be very happy. I think he
probably doesn’t
realize. If he sat down and thought about it — you might ask him
sometime what he
thinks, just for the hell of it.
Weiner:
By the way, he has agreed to sit down and talk. Just a specific small
thing on —
Feynman:
The sun.
Weiner:
I want to talk with him on the 1938 business, you know —
Feynman:
The sun.
Weiner:
The three papers. What sun?
Feynman:
The energy of the stars.
Weiner:
Oh. I thought you meant, son. Yeah. Yes, the energy of the stars. But
the thing that he
did, the three part paper in R. M. P.; you were probably too young at
the time to be
aware of it.
Feynman:
No, I told you the story about the paper starting, and they wanted a
course. They were
going to have a course at MIT based on those papers.
102
Weiner:
Oh, yeah, of course.
Feynman:
Sure. No, I was not too young.
Weiner:
Anyway, this is the three paper series.
Feynman:
Want to turn off your tape now?
Richard Feynman interview transcript used with permission by Melanie
Jackson
Agency, LLC.
103
NIELS BOHR LIBRARY & ARCHIVES / TRANSCRIPT
ONE PHYSICS ELLIPSE, COLLEGE PARK, MD 20740 • (301)-209-3177 •
NBL@AIP.ORG
Richard Feynman - Session IV
June 28, 1966
Interviewed by: Charles Weiner
Location: Altadena, California
Transcript version date: December 18, 2024
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1063/nbla.mvme.nmqh
1
Abstract:
Interview covers the development of several branches of theoretical
physics from the
1930s through the 1960s; the most extensive discussions deal with topics
in quantum
electrodynamics, nuclear physics as it relates to fission technology,
meson field theory,
superfluidity and other properties of liquid helium, beta decay and the
Universal Fermi
Interaction, with particular emphasis on Feynman's work in the
reformulation of
quantum electrodynamic field equations. Early life in Brooklyn, New
York; high school;
undergraduate studies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology; learning
the theory of
relativity and quantum mechanics on his own. To Princeton University
(John A.
Wheeler), 1939; serious preoccupation with problem of self-energy of
electron and other
problems of quantum field theory; work on uranium isotope separation;
Ph.D., 1942.
Atomic bomb project, Los Alamos (Hans Bethe, Niels Bohr, Enrico Fermi);
test
explosion at Alamagordo. After World War II teaches mathematical physics
at Cornell
University; fundamental ideas in quantum electrodynamics crystalize;
publishes "A
Space-Time View," 1948; Shelter Island Conference (Lamb shift); Poconos
Conferences;
relations with Julian Schwinger and Shin'ichiro Tomonaga; nature and
quality of
scientific education in Latin America; industry and science policies. To
California
Institute of Technology, 1951; problems associated with the nature of
superfluid helium;
work on the Lamb shift (Bethe, Michel Baranger); work on the law of beta
decay and
violation of parity (Murray Gell-Mann); biological studies; philosophy
of scientific
discovery; Geneva Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy;
masers (Robert
Hellwarth, Frank Lee Vernon, Jr.), 1957; Solvay Conference, 1961.
Appraisal of current
state of quantum electrodynamics; opinion of the National Academy of
Science; Nobel
Prize, 1965.
2
Usage Information and Disclaimer:
This transcript, or substantial portions thereof, may not be
redistributed by any means
except with the written permission of the American Institute of Physics.
AIP oral history transcripts are based on audio recordings, and the
interviewer and
interviewee have generally had the opportunity to review and edit a
transcript, such that
it may depart in places from the original conversation. If you have
questions about the
interview, or you wish to consult additional materials we may have that
are relevant to it,
please contact us at nbl@aip.org for further information.
Please bear in mind that this oral history was not intended as a
literary product and
therefore may not read as clearly as a more fully edited source. Also,
memories are not
fully reliable guides to past events. Statements made within the
interview represent a
subjective appreciation of events as perceived at the time of the
interview, and factual
statements should be corroborated by other sources whenever possible or
be clearly
cited as a recollection.
3
Weiner:
We’re resuming now on the morning of June 28th, 1966. We talked, off
tape, about
getting back to Cornell, to fill in some of the background, some of the
incidents that you
recall.
Feynman:
We’ve been remembering some things that we left out. And it seems to me
still that we
should do the things that we left out also chronologically. One of the
things I left out
was the relation of Bohr — with Bohr and with Fermi at Los Alamos. So
that takes us
even further back. So let’s start there. Let’s start first, for example,
with Fermi. When I
was at Los Alamos, I knew many of these great guys. Fermi was at Chicago
all the time,
but about half way through, somewhere, I don’t know exactly, he came to
consult from
time to time, to help out by consulting, at Los Alamos. One of the early
times, perhaps
the first time, I don’t know, he was in a room, and we were supposed to
be discussing
some problem involving mixing uranium and hydrogen which I had been
working on
with my group. He wanted the results of it. Now, for everybody else in
the lab I was
particularly good at, or I seemed to be good at, understanding the
results of a calculation.
So when somebody would make a calculation, I could see why it ought to
be more or
less like it was without actually calculating it by some physical
reasoning. I was the
expert, the guy they’d usually try to ask if he could see why it came
out that way, and I
was fairly successful. As far as my own calculation for this hydrogen
business, it was
rather complicated for me to see why it came out the way it did. It was
only to me the
result of calculations I could give, rather than a real understanding.
So, Fermi was in this
conference, this little group. It was in a small room, and there must
have been eight or
ten people or something like that, and he asked what about this stuff
with hydrogen. He
wanted me to report so he could think about it. So I thought it out. I
told the problem
and he said, “Ah, let me see what I think might happen.” Then he started
to give the
kind of physical argument I’m always giving, and he went along; it would
be this way and
then it would be that way. I said, “No, you left out a feature. You see,
there’s this extra
complication.” “Oh, yes,” says he, and then he went a little bit
further, and he worked it
out and explained the results of my calculation, which I hadn’t
previously understood. It
was very impressive to me, because he was able to do to me what I was
able to do to
somebody else. So he was just that much beyond me as I was beyond a lot
of other
people. So I remember that very distinctly, as a very clear thinking,
clear physical
thinking man. On another occasion, perhaps during the same visit — in
other words, I
didn’t know him well at all — or perhaps the next visit —
Weiner:
By the way, was this the first time you’d seen him?
4
Feynman:
Very close to the first time I’d seen him. I can’t remember.
Weiner:
You hadn’t really had any exchanges.
Feynman:
Well, I believe it was either the first or second, or very close to the
beginning of my first
contact with him. And this other story is also close to the first. I
don’t know which was
first. I think this second one is second. I had been doing some
calculations on water
boilers, so called, which is slow reactors in which you have uranium — I
mean U-235
enhanced in water. He had done a lot of work with piles, naturally, in
Chicago. We were
discussing something, I can’t remember exactly what, and I had a way of
looking at it by
which I could see a certain conclusion for my water boilers. He didn’t
believe the
conclusion, and he tried to explain to me how to look at it, that it
wasn’t true. But I had
this way of looking that I knew damn well it had to be, because I had a
physical
argument that had to be right. So I knew I was right, and I tried to
explain it to him. But
he had this other way of looking at it and tried to explain to me that
it couldn’t be true.
It’s a kind of a famous story, because you see one thing that was my
characteristic, which
I see time and time again in those days, is, once I got into physics I
forgot who I was
talking to. So it didn’t mean a damn thing who I was talking to, it just
was that it was
really right and I had to explain it to this guy. The thing that I
wasn’t doing was listening
to his explanation, to find the flaw in it or something. Anyway, it’s a
famous story; that
we argued something like 45 minutes or an hour and a quarter, something
like that, and
finally he saw that it was right. That was famous because I bested him
in an argument,
but I didn’t feel it that way while I was doing it, or anything of the
kind. It was just kind
of, after we were finished, people made these comments.
Weiner:
Was this a group?
Feynman:
There were a lot of people — not that particular group. This was another
time, when we
were arguing in a room somewhere, and there were people around
listening. But the
reason for the difficulty was that he was — like I was in a similar
position — so used to
talking to people who don’t understand easily that you don’t listen much
to the other
guy, you know? It’s a habit you get from experience. It doesn’t pay. And
so you try to
5
explain, as clearly as you can, and so that’s what he was trying to do.
First, he had
worked on these things which had certain proportions different. Because
of the very
large dimension, the rate of leakage is easy to analyze a different way,
and these were
relatively small dimensions. There were different things of different
importance, so that
the way of looking at it was essential, better than the other way,
because of the
differences in the character of the problem. But he thought he could get
away with the
other way of looking at it, which was useful for piles. Anyway, this is
some relation, yes,
with Fermi. Well, sometime later — we were friends, of course, through
all —
Weiner:
Are you going to leave Fermi now?
Feynman:
Just another little story, if you want to know something about Fermi.
Weiner:
I was afraid you were going to leave this other one out.
Feynman:
Well, it was always very friendly. I mean, there were jokes and
everything else — these
conversations and arguments. Another story of this kind is that I wrote
some kind of
report on something, and when he was visiting — this was later, I know
this was later —
he was visiting, and he calls up on the telephone. He says, “Hey,
Feynman, I’ve been
reading LADC l62” — whatever the number was -– “this article of yours,”
and he says,
“I wonder why you bother to print it, because couldn’t even a child see
that this result
has to come out this way?” So I say, “Yes, if that child’s name was
Enrico Fermi.” “No,”
he says, “even an ordinary child.” It turned out at the end it wasn’t as
obvious as he
thought, but anyway, that’s the way we talked to each other. He’s a very
nice fellow. I
was often at his home, and his wife made us dinner — you know we had
parties at his
home and everything. I liked him very much.
Weiner:
When did you have the opportunity of being in Chicago at his home?
Feynman:
I visited Chicago later, much later.
6
Weiner:
Yes, I have letters about that —
Feynman:
I was in Chicago to give some lectures about helium, and I saw him there
then. Also he
visited Caltech sometimes. If you want other things about him, related
to that, we should
put it in here.
Weiner:
Yes, I think it’s appropriate. Just put in your reaction to him.
Feynman:
Well, in the lectures on helium, he wanted me to come to tell about the
helium, and he
listened to all the lectures to try to learn it, and he would ask
appropriate questions, very
penetrating and so on. I don’t remember more. I was at his home, and
there’s a lot of
pleasant stuff but I can’t remember. Then, when he came to Caltech, I do
remember one
little incident. We were discussing something. He had a theory at the
time about how
when two things hit each other at very high speed in cosmic rays, there
was some kind of
a hot box made where everything got to thermal equilibrium and then it
began to
explode, a statistical theory of how many pions should come out in high
energy reactions
and so on. And we were discussing the criteria for its being right, and
so on. Somewhere
along the line he said, “Let’s see, what is the criterion for the WKB
approximation?”
That’s a technical point. I said, “You should know.” He said, “But I
don’t remember,”
and he hands me the chalk –- “Professor, so let’s see —” And I couldn’t
get it
straightened out, so I said, “The chalk, Professor.” He took it back, “I
think I know
now,” and he starts to explain, and he couldn’t get it straightened out
and he gives me
back the chalk. And this went on for fifteen minutes. Now, that’s a very
elementary
preposition that we always expect all the students to know right away,
and we were both
confused. Finally we caught on, and then of course it was obvious and we
both felt very
silly. The reason that this was important, to me, was something
interesting. Whenever
Fermi lectured about any subject whatever, and I’ve heard many, or
talked about any
subject whatever that he’d thought about before, the clarity of the
exposition, the
perfection with which everything was put together to make everything
look so obvious
and beautifully simple, gave me the impression that he did not suffer
from a disease of
the mind which I suffer from, which is CONFUSION! When I think about
something, I
go along in a certain way, and then I get balled up, and then I go back,
and I think — I
get mixed up easily. I easily get into confusion, which is the horror of
the whole business
when you’re thinking. It’s like building a pile of cards and the whole
thing collapses, and
you keep going and it collapses. But when he’d give a lecture, or when
he’d talk about
anything, up to that time — I had heard him, like I’d heard him give
something new
7
about the hydrogen business I told you about, and he comes out clear —
even when I
was arguing with him about the piles, in what he was saying he was not
confused. He
was just not understanding what I was talking about. There was never any
sing of
confusion. And so I asked him about this afterwards. I said, “I’d got
the impression that
you don’t get confused.” He said, “That’s impossible!” I always get —”
It’s just that I
hadn’t realized. I thought he was so perfect that he didn’t have this
difficulty of getting
confused as he went along. But apparently everybody does. That’s what
stops you from
proceeding. You get balled up and forget and get mixed up. So anyway, I
found him
mixed up, just like me, at this same time. That’s another story—that the
great Fermi can
make a mistake, or can be confused about a simple idea.
Weiner:
Did you regard him as a theoretician, as an experimentalist, or what?
How did you
classify him in physics?
Feynman:
Well, of course, he was both, but I thought of him as a theorist all the
time. That’s right.
Weiner:
How did you feel about him as to his relative position in physics? By
this time, or even in
Los Alamos, you began to know a lot of people. How did you regard him as
to his
relative standing in the world of physics?
Feynman:
One of the very great physicists. Yes. You must appreciate that I don’t
put them in
order. There’s no order, because their qualities are different, you
know. I mean, each one
has a way, and his was clarity of physical reasoning, which was his
expertness, you see.
So I don’t make an order. For instance, I couldn’t say which is the
better physicist, Bethe
or Fermi. That is to me an impossible assignment; Oppenheimer or Bethe,
Pauli versus
someone. They’re all very great guys. And Fermi to me was someone I
loved to talk to,
that I thought was marvelous, a very great physicist. Very great.
Weiner:
Was he in the group that occasionally walked together at Los Alamos, the
group you
mentioned yesterday off the tape?
Feynman:
8
Yes, that’s right. I think maybe we met sometimes. We went on several
trips, this and
that. It’s hard to remember, because, you know, different people would
come in and out.
Weiner:
What did you do, hike in mountains there?
Feynman:
Yes, we’d hike in the mountains or we’d walk in the back woods. We’d
take a special trip
in the car to some mountain and hike in the mountains. Or else we’d just
walk back
around there in the canyons. It was a very delightful place. We’d just
go off and walk in
the canyons and mesas and everything else.
Weiner:
You relieved the pressures somewhat. You had time to do this.
Feynman:
Well, yes, you didn’t work all the time. After supper, say.
Weiner:
OK. Now, what about Bohr? You started to talk about him.
Feynman:
I also met him when I was at Los Alamos, and as you know, he came under
the name of
Baker. I had heard of him—naturally, I had heard of him, and it was
exciting when he
was going to come. I did talk about Von Neumann, I’m sure, before.
Weiner:
At Los Alamos? Well, while you’re talking about Bohr —
Feynman:
All right. Bohr came, and visited, and asked some questions and so on.
Now, to be
absolutely frank with you, you see, Bohr was an old man, and had come
from the deep
past of quantum mechanics. He was a great physicist and a deep thinker,
difficult to
understand because of his language. His English pronunciation was
handled as though it
were Danish or something like that, and not really, in my mind, so
terribly profound,
9
possibly because I couldn’t understand him. But when it came to the
physics thing, it
was not impressive, because these things were quite modern and quite out
of his ken. So
he wasn’t too good, it seemed to me, about it. He would take me aside.
Well, this is later.
The first time he visited, I can’t remember exactly, but there was some
kind of
conference. He was making remarks, other people were making remarks, and
I made
some remarks. And, as the usual phenomenon, I must have said something
disrespectful
or something, if you know what I mean. I just said, “That’s not right.”
But anyhow, the
next time he was due to come to Los Alamos, I got a telephone call early
in the morning,
8 o’clock or something, getting me out of bed in the dormitory. “This is
Jim Baker. My
father and I have arrived last night at Los Alamos, and we’d like to
talk to you.” So I met
them in the office that was given to him, up at the technical area, and
I was the only guy
there — just the two — me and Jim and his father. Jim helped to
interpret for his father,
because he was more modern-minded, but the father was pretty good.
Weiner:
Jim — you mean Aage Bohr?
Feynman:
Aage Bohr, yes. So it went something like this. During the several
months that they were
away, and having learned a lot of stuff at Los Alamos, they began to
think of some
problems. “Now, why can’t we make the bomb, say, this way? Wouldn’t that
be a good
idea?” I explained that that had been thought of first — I don’t
remember the way,
exactly — and had the following trouble with it. It wasn’t any good
because of this and
that. “Oh, then why don’t we fix it by doing such and such?” In other
words, they had a
lot of ideas they wanted to discuss, and they just put one idea after
the other, and I
commented, “This is no good. This may be possible if you did this. This
one’s no good,
that’s this, that, and so on,” until about 10:30. Finally the Old Man
said, “Well, I guess
we can call in the big shots now.” And I talked to the son, who
explained to me what
happened. His father said — now, you have to check with the son, but
this is what I
remember — his father said, when they left Los Alamos the first time,
“There’s a young
man there who doesn’t hesitate to criticize me. Everyone else thinks I’m
a Grand Old
Man and they’re afraid to say anything. Next time we go, if we want
criticism, we must
discuss our ideas first with him.” So the second time they came they
picked me out to
criticize the ideas. They couldn’t get criticism, you see — Niels Bohr
couldn’t get an
honest critique of his ideas and he needed it, and he saw that there was
some jerk there
who was such a fool that he’d tell him exactly what he thought. Because
of my disease,
once I thought of physics I forgot whom I was speaking to. I didn’t pay
any attention to
it. So that’s the story, at any rate, and it would be nice to check with
Aage. I haven’t
checked recently to see if I got the thing exactly right. It happened. I
was of course quite
surprised -– “Why do you want me? What happened?” And I asked him, you
see,
afterwards, after they called in the big shots, “Why did you do this?
Why me? And so he
told me the story of his father. And his father and I, sometimes — once
or twice, his
10
father would say to me, after supper when he was up there, “Let’s go for
a walk.” And
we’d go for a walk on the mesa top, and he would discuss some
philosophical questions.
The misery of this is, I didn’t understand him, because of language. His
language was so
difficult. And so there might have been some very deep wonderful
thinking. I might
have learned a great deal, you know, and it was rather sad. I had to
sort of mumble as if I
understood, yes and no, and I couldn’t act intelligent because I
couldn’t comprehend his
speech very well. He had his pipe in his mouth, and Danish is hard to
understand
anyway.
Weiner:
I heard he had a speech problem in general, no matter what language.
Feynman:
Maybe. At any rate, I felt very uncomfortable on these talks, because I
did not
understand what he was talking about, and it was not because the subject
was too
difficult, it was because I couldn’t understand what he’d say. Now, it
turned out that I
was one of the best understanders of him, generally, around, because I
had talked so
many times with him, and he had done this thing that I just mentioned,
had these talks
and so on. When he would give a lecture, which everybody would attend —
and he did
lecture on some of the history of quantum mechanics and other things to
entertain — I
would sit, and there would be a group of people around me, and they
would ask me,
“What does that mean, ‘keston’?” I would say, “Keston mean Question.”
And so on.
And I would translate. Most of the lectures I could understand, because
they were more
formal, but his talking directly to me about philosophy on the mesa top,
I just couldn’t
get enough to make clear sense of it. So I felt uncomfortable about
that.
Weiner:
Did you see him after Los Alamos?
Feynman:
Oh, yes. I’ve seen him at meetings and so on. He died recently, didn’t
he?
Weiner:
Oh, sure, in ‘62.
Feynman:
Yeah. Well, I saw him just before that, at some meeting in ‘61, in fact,
at the Solvay
11
Conference.
Weiner:
You mentioned Von Neumann. I don’t seem to find anything on that in what
we
covered before. If you start telling me, I can interrupt you if it
sounds familiar.
Feynman:
All right. Well, it was nothing particular. You asked me about different
personalities that
were there. Von Neumann was another man that I met, that I had met
before at
Princeton, because he had been at Princeton. But he came to Los Alamos
and he was
very useful in giving advice and so on. I guess there’s nothing more to
say. I remember,
sometimes when we went for walks, he would come. He was with us because
he seemed
to be a good friend of Bethe and Bacher too.
Weiner:
The walks we talked about — Bethe, Bacher, Smith sometimes when he would
come
down, and you.
Feynman:
Yes. And I just remembered Von Neumann was sometimes there. There was
much
personal life, and many things which I have completely forgotten, which
is really bad,
because there were so many kindnesses and so many wonderful people, like
the wives of
these men. They would make parties. They would try to keep us happy and
entertained,
and they would do nice things for the poor guys that were living in the
dormitories, by
inviting them to their homes for dinner, very often, and so on and so
on. And I would
play with the children of the various families. It was very good, and I
appreciate it very
much, but it’s all in one great mass of confusion. I can’t remember the
individual people.
I know — I don’t remember people individually very well.
Weiner:
Well, this was a difficult period for you, because of your wife’s
illness and everything.
Feynman:
Well, that only happened near the very end. The illness wasn’t
difficult.
Weiner:
12
No, I meant the culmination. Well, let’s — if you think it’s appropriate
— get back to
some of the details on Cornell.
Feynman:
Things that I forgot to mention about Cornell. When you talk about
different people, I
would like to say that when we talked about Cornell, I said it was kind
of an intellectual
vacuum and this and that. I forgot to mention that there were these
mathematicians,
Mark Kac and a man named Feller, that I did have great conversations
with, and we
talked a lot. Mark Kac got very interested in the path integral
business, and he interested
me in a number of problems in statistical mechanics, like so-called
“Onsager” problems
and so on. So we had many conversations with him, and I didn’t mention
that. I’ve just
looked over, thought about these things.
Weiner:
How about Feller?
Feynman:
Feller, too, but I don’t remember too well. The other thing about
Cornell, when you
asked me why I left — it was because, besides the various things
mentioned, it’s isolated
in a small town, and there isn’t anything very wild, or — you can’t
quite get away,
exactly. I used to go to some small place called The Traveler Hotel, or
something,
because in the evening they had dancing, and some students and other
people danced to
the jukebox. And I used to sit in a corner and get fried egg sandwiches
and coke — not
coke, it couldn’t be coke — fried egg sandwiches and something, and sit
there and
figure, calculate, and watch them dance and calculate, and so on, and
maybe dance with
somebody, then sit down and do some more figuring, because I liked to do
that. That’s
what I used to do at Las Vegas, too. I’d work for a while, then I’d play
for a while, then
I’d work for a while. But I developed, at the time when I was at
Cornell, a desire to see
the wilder aspects of life — that is, like what goes on at bars,
drinking, and all that kind
of stuff which I had never been really in contact with before. Then,
Cornell got a
laboratory called the Aeronautical Laboratory in Buffalo — some
Aeronautical
Laboratory that they’d bought or something. And then, probably as part
of the contract,
they said that they would give some lectures in physics to teach some of
them, like I give
lectures in Hughes now. They sent somebody to do it, but the guy was too
mathematical
minded and abstract, and they were complaining, so they asked me if I
would take it over
instead of this other guy. I didn’t want to do it. It’s all the way in
Buffalo. You have to go
by airplane one night a week. It didn’t look like fun. But you have some
loyalty to the
university, if you’re asked. So I said, “Ok,” and they said they’d pay
me $35 a night,
besides the expenses, to do that. I had never spent any money before. I
was born in the
Depression and had never had enough money. I was always saving; I never
thought to
spend it wildly. But I had this great brilliant thought: I don’t want to
go to Buffalo.
13
They’re paying me $35 to compensate me for going to Buffalo. That’s $35
I wouldn’t
have ordinarily had. So what I’m going to do is, when I’m in Buffalo I’m
going to spend
the $35 in the one night that I come there, one night extra, and try to
see if I can’t amuse
myself in such a way that I’ll enjoy going instead. So I’m not going to
save this money
for a change; I’m going to spend it.
Weiner:
This was a conscious part of your plan?
Feynman:
Absolutely, because — well, I was made that I had to go, and I thought
of the $35, and I
suddenly realized that this was something I wouldn’t have had anyway,
and it was just
directly to compensate, so why shouldn’t I use it? It was the first time
I thought to spend
money for nonsense, to waste money, you might say, because I never had
done it before.
I was always very — what is it, parsimonious, or something. So I decided
just to have a
wild and wonderful time. I remember, the first time I got there. I gave
my lecture, and I
got a taxi to take me from the lecture place into Buffalo and to the
hotel. I talked to the
taxi driver, and I asked him where’s a good bar that people are very
friendly and it’s kind
of interesting, and he gave me the name of a place. Then he took me over
there, and
before he let me out of the car I said, “Listen — I don’t drink. What is
the name of a
good drink to have? How do you order it and so on?” He said, “Whiskey.
Ask for
whiskey.” I said, “Well —” He said, “You usually say how you want it, on
the rocks, or
with water and so on.” I’d seen a lot of Western movies, so I said,
“Suppose I want it
straight?” He said, “Well, you can have it straight, but usually people
have something on
the side in case it’s too much for them, like a glass of water. So you
can say whiskey and
water on the side.” I said, “But usually you name the brand.” This is
the level I was on.
“What’s a good brand?” He says, “Black and White.” So from that time to
the end of my
drinking career, I always asked, “Black and White, water on the side.”
Weiner:
Black and white, that’s scotch?
Feynman:
Scotch, yeah. Water on the side. So I used to take the straight scotch
and then I’d take a
little water.
Weiner:
Was he amused by this?
14
Feynman:
I don’t know. He gave me his name. I still remember it, to show you how
impressed I
was — Markusso, his car number’s 169 — in case I go again in Buffalo. He
said next
week when I come, to ask for that car and he’d take me around to other
things, and so
on. He got me a prostitute at one time, and so on. It was quite a time.
So I had a very
good and interesting time there. I went to this bar, and I found it very
interesting, but I
didn’t understand it very well. There were very fancy looking women and
men, and so
on, and some of the girls had furs. So I sat down on a bench, and in a
few minutes, a
very few minutes (luckily), a very good-looking girl happened to come
over and sit down
next to me. I bought her some drinks and so and so and so on, lots of
things. I got
drinks. I got drunk. And when the bar closed up she just went away, and
so on. Of
course, it was one of these B-girls, but I didn’t know what the hell was
coming off. So I
learned, slowly. That whole subject has interested me as a hobby, that
is, how everything
works in such a place. And it’s always been a hobby, and it still is a
hobby. That must
have been about one semester. The last time I went — luckily it was the
last time I went
— I got into a fight with a man in the men’s room, and we gave each
other a black eye.
So when I got back to Cornell the next day, I had a great big beautiful
shiner. Of course
they had fun with that.
Weiner:
Yes, I imagine there was a little talk on campus, probably.
Feynman:
Yeah. It was amusing.
Weiner:
Well, back to Cornell. You mentioned an encounter with the draft board.
Feynman:
Oh, yeah. Well, I went to General Electric the first summer, I believe,
with Bethe, and
we did some work — maybe it was the second summer. Yeah, it was probably
the
second summer after the war, if you want dates. The first summer I went
back, I believe,
to Los Alamos to finish some papers and stuff that I had not finished. I
had run off too
quick. The second summer I think I worked at GE, which is a little
interesting. I’ll
describe the General Electric business. We worked there, and they told
us we could do
whatever we wanted, so we were doing some work in cosmic rays, some
research in
cosmic rays, Bethe and I together. They said you could do whatever you
wanted. It was
quite exciting. They had brought together a large number of fairly good
people from
15
different places. But they had some problems, like to design a detector
for the
synchrotron that they had made. They were trying to seal synchrotrons at
the time. It
never worked out.
Weiner:
Was there a big enough market for them?
Feynman:
Well, the market, see, was expanding. I mean, the next synchrotron would
be more
energy than the one they designed. They didn’t realize. They made a
mistake in trying to
get into the synchrotron business. You can’t make a unit and sell it all
around,
apparently. At least, that’s what they thought they could do, but it
didn’t work out,
because people would re-design; want something different, and so on.
Something
happened. It didn’t work. Anyway, they were doing some research there,
and they were
trying to become leaders in experimental research in physics, by having
the highest
energy synchrotrons and so on, see. I’ll explain to you why in a minute,
in my opinion.
Well, I’ll tell you right now. It’s my opinion that the plan of the
company was this —
that they were going to get into atomic energy. In order to get into
atomic energy they
had to have knowledge and good scientists there to do this engineering
work and to give
advice when necessary. So they wanted to have a number of good
scientists who had
been at Los Alamos, say, and they realized that one way they might do it
would be to
have a good laboratory in high energy research, to attract such men. In
addition, I
believe, they also expected to sell synchrotrons. Anyway, they had built
some
synchrotrons, and they were talking about counters for it, and with this
plan they could
get a lot of guys to come in the summer time to this laboratory. We
would worry about
the design of a counter that would be independent of the energy of the
gamma ray,
would count the total energy in the gamma rays independent of the energy
of each
individual one, or something like that. So we worried. The people would
come worrying
us with counter design and other problems, in addition to which I was
asked to give a
series — I don’t remember if it was a series or a few — lectures on the
methods of
calculating how much uranium you need for a pile, how a pile works, and
so on, because
I knew a lot about it at Los Alamos. So I would lecture. They were going
to build nuclear
reactors, so they had to know. So this is the way they found out. They
got these scientists
there, and they gave their engineers lectures and so on. So that’s what
we were doing
mostly. We were doing cosmic ray research. We did a lot of
extracurricular stuff for the
General Electric Co. At the end of the time that I was there, I went
into the office of the
head, who was a man named Soups, head of the research laboratory, and he
said –- “I
have talked to Professor Bethe about it —” and he talked about how he
would like to
have people at GE who were good, and what great opportunities they would
have in this
big laboratory, and everything was going to be duck soup and stuff, see.
He said, “There
are a few difficulties, because Professor Bethe made me promise not to
offer you a
position and a salary which, with good sense, you could not refuse.” You
see? He had
16
talked to Bethe and Bethe told him not to do it, but he was doing it, he
was telling me
that he was going to offer me a position which with good sense I
couldn’t refuse, but he
couldn’t tell me the details. So I simply told him that, “Inasmuch as I
don’t know what
— you don’t give me any details, I know nothing about it — it’s very
easy for me to
refuse.” But I wouldn’t have gone there anyway, because I gradually
caught on to this
kind of thing, which happens in many industrial laboratories, or at
least used to happen.
A lot of laboratories tried this, which was: They had real engineering
and technical
problems of their own; they would woo the scientists there on the
grounds that they can
do whatever they want, you don’t have to bother with anything, you’ve
got your own
laboratory, your own assistants, you do whatever you want. While you’re
working there
and you’re doing whatever you want, little technical problems come up
that somebody
asks you about. Now, most scientists have a feeling — or most guys under
these
circumstances have a feeling of a certain amount of loyalty to the
company that pays
their salary. They feel they’re not doing any good to the company. It’s
true that the
company, when they were hired, told them, that’s our business, you do
whatever you
want. But they can’t — for some reason, they don’t believe that, or they
feel they have
some responsibility to do something useful for the company, not just
fool around with
their own problems. So they feel a responsibility to do these things,
and in this way the
company gets them to do it. But what happens is, the company can’t
resist, and they ask
them more and more, until these fellows are completely involved, or
nearly completely
involved in company work, and they can’t do their own work. And of
course, it’s their
own fault, and the company says, “We told you, you can do whatever you
want,” and so
on. And the guy doesn’t know what to do, and he just gets upset and
quits. I would
guess that was going to happen at GE. That’s what did happen, after
several years, to
many of the men who decided to stay there. They had to quit, and the
reason they quit
was, I believe, this sequence. I mention this because I think that this
is a thing that has
happened in many industries and many places. The Bell Telephone Co., for
example, is
not of this kind. They did have a laboratory that you could do whatever
you want, and
they did have a policy of research, to exclude that you should get
involved with anything.
There wasn’t any force of this kind. Whereas the other lab, the GE I
think, had a plan,
purposely to do what they were doing. The Bell Telephone Co. tried to
avoid that. And
so in various research laboratories, it depends on what the policy is,
and if the policy is
really that you’re getting these guys to do the other thing by enticing
them with freedom,
it doesn’t really work. I mean, guys just leave after a while. I’ve
always had a negative
attitude to certain industrial laboratories, as a result of this. But
laboratories have
changed since 1950. That’s experience.
Weiner:
With your Hughes lecturing now, and between now and the GE summer
experience,
have you done any work in connection with industry?
Feynman:
17
No, none. But I talked a lot to people who are in it.
Weiner:
I understand that part, but I mean, yourself.
Feynman:
No, I haven’t, because of various experiences, and what people tell me.
Weiner:
Is it true that when people get involved in a company, in the work, that
they get
interested in it?
Feynman:
I know, but then they understand that that’s not what they’re really
interested in.
Weiner:
They have a conflict.
Feynman:
They have a conflict, and tensions, and usually they either give up
completely, or there’s
another tension that happens. If they get 100 percent involved in the
company work,
then another trouble happens. There’s always some guy on top of them,
the boss, who is
dumber technically than they are, and who makes the decision as to what
they ought to
do, and whether what they do is worthwhile. And they see that the guy’s
making
mistakes, because of his technical shortcomings. So they think (again,
loyalty to the
company, or the government or whatever there is) that it would be better
if they were
the head, because they could make the decisions better. And so they go
into that
position. And then they’re in an administrative position. They started
out wanting to do
research, and then they’re doing company research, and next they’re
doing
administration. And they just get terribly upset, unhappy and
frustrated. See, it’s an
interesting phenomenon. It’s an interesting phenomenon because it’s a
sort of a one way
street. You gradually, step by step, get enticed into this.
Feynman:
Is it recording properly? Is the needle moving? I can see it from here.
You asked me
about consulting. I’ll tell about all the various consulting positions,
in succession. Not
18
just this particular time. I said I didn’t do any, but I remember some.
The first one was, I
was consulted on a problem of safety for nuclear energy peacetime
plants. I was thinking
of designing one at the General Electric Co. The reason that I was
involved, of course,
was because I was involved in the safety at Los Alamos. And so I felt,
you ought to help
out if you know about these things for peacetime use in business. So I
was on a
committee to worry about these problems. But after some time, the
problems got of a
kind that I didn’t feel I could make a contribution to. You see, the
questions would
come. I remember a specific question — for example, if you put the plant
further away
from a population center (even if it’s calculated safe something can
happen — there’s a
small chance) what would happen would be less serious, of course, then
if it’s near a lot
of people. That’s perfectly clear. I’m just setting the problem up. The
question was: was
the difference in safety worth the fact that the people who had to go to
it, had to
commute so far? And that the people who were doing management would be
further
away from the plant, and this and that and this. Well, that’s not
anything I know a
damned thing about. I mean, I don’t know how hard it is to consult, to
travel so far, how
many men they have working, what they have. To heck with it. So, I mean,
I can figure
out what the neutrons are going to do, but I don’t care about the other
problems. I
mean, that’s for someone who can put 2 and 2 together. I didn’t know how
to answer
the question. So the questions became questions at this level, for
which, although they
were important questions and somebody has to decide them, I don’t want
to waste my
time worrying about such things. They’re important things, but they’re
something I don’t
like to worry about. So I quit. Now, another time — the date I’ll have
to get for you — I
got a letter from the Army, asking me to be on a new committee that they
were forming,
or a revamped committee or something, Weapons Evaluation Group? No. Not
Weapons Evaluation Group. I’ll have to find the letters and find out
exactly what it is
called. But it was something where scientists were to advise the Army, a
scientific
advisory group for the Army, for their problems. And they said that they
had a lot of
problems, problems in organization as well as hardware problems and so
on, problems
on how to administer and organize research in the Army, and would I
help? I know that
I know nothing about organizing and administering research.
Weiner:
Well, you’d had experience at Los Alamos in —
Feynman:
I didn’t organize it. Well, fifteen guys. If you asked me to do a job,
I’d do it in my own
way, but I ain’t going to tell some — no. So I figured that I forgot
that, I had no
business, I didn’t know how to organize research, except by doing it
myself. I couldn’t
tell somebody else how to organize it. So I wrote back that I’m a
theoretical physicist
and I don’t know anything about these matters, and I didn’t want to do
it. So they wrote
back, it is their experience nevertheless that theoretical physicists
have as a learned -–
something — well, anyway, that they’re smart, so they can do stuff like
this. I don’t know
19
how they put it, but they said that their experience was that
theoretical physicists were
useful to them, and they did have a way of thinking, and so on —
flattering letter in
addition to which, would I please come? And I wrote, “No.” Maybe it was
only two
letters back and forth, but anyway. Then, somewhere along the line, I
got a letter from
the Secretary of the Army, which said that they would very much like to
have me and it
seems to be very important work that I would do, valuable for the
country, and so on,
and that they would make it this way, that I could come to the first
meeting which was
three days or something like that. Then I would really see how things
were, and I could
see whether or not I could make a contribution. Then I could decide in
the end whether
I wanted to continue this or not. Well, what can you say? So, ok. So I
went to the first
meeting for several days, and it was very very entertaining. The Army
told me everything,
all the weapons they had, and all the gadgets, everything and they asked
me all kinds of
questions. Then they had cocktail parties, meeting generals and so on;
informal things. A
general would tell me that what they need is a tank that uses sand for
fuel, because it
would be great if you could just scoop up the sand and turn it into
power, because they
could keep on going. The problem is refueling the damn things when they
go too far,
and so on and so on. They apparently thought that science could do
anything. There
probably is a way of solving this tank problem, but not by scooping up
sand and making
energy out of the sand. Anyhow, we then had these meetings. We would
discuss a
number of things, and every once in a while I noticed that the problems
would come up,
and I’d find myself talking about something like this — whether the
research should be
under the Army Intelligence division or under the Ordnance and Supply
Department, or
something like that. And I heard myself saying, “Well, it seems to me it
would be this
way, or that way and that way —” and then I realized this is absolutely
crazy. You get
into the feeling of it. You hear the discussions, and you get half-baked
ideas, and you
start to talk. So I knew, when I heard myself saying this, this is the
end, because I can’t
do this. Furthermore, it was decided at the end of the meeting that the
main problems
that they would discuss — there were also technical problems, like how
can we make a
tank that would last without fuel, other questions, and others where I
thought I could
figure out what kind of research to do, and how to go about it, but
that’s all — I could
do something about. But they said that it seemed to them that the
problems, the
technical problems, would be best left to the laboratories and so on.
But the problem of
general organization, like what department, would be more what the
committee should
worry about. When I heard that, I figured, that’s the one part I can’t
do anything about,
so I told them, “No.” They were absolutely flabbergasted, because during
the time, it
was clear to me, they had put next to me a lieutenant or a general or
somebody, next to
me at dinner — the same guy, you know, all the time. We would go to
lunch after the
meeting, and he’d sit there and he’d say to me, “Wonderful remarks that
you made. Very
important contribution.” And when I listened to what I said, I realized
that for the
problems that they were talking about, the man who ran Macy’s would be
the right man
to do it, because he has the problem of logistics. When Christmas comes,
how many
should he order? They don’t know how many they’re going to sell. How do
they get in?
How do they get out? These problems, you know. I figured there’s lots of
people in the
world that have much better talent for this business than I. Then I hear
myself talking
20
about it, and then after, this guy was telling me that what I said was
very important, very
interesting, and so on. And I knew that he was just put there to flatter
me. The more I
did it, I laughed at him. I said, “You’re crazy. If you think that’s
worthwhile, you have no
sense.” And I didn’t go. But they were very surprised, because they
thought all this time
that they were convincing me. But I was convinced quite the opposite.
From these
experiences, I’ve therefore almost never accepted any kind of
proposition like that,
because I don’t like the non-technical problems. They’re not to my
liking. I just don’t
feel good about them. So I don’t have much to do with it and have never,
therefore,
done much consulting.
Weiner:
Well, let’s go back to Cornell, then. We’re still in the Cornell period.
Feynman:
Yes. There’s one other story about Cornell that I would like to mention.
Somewhere —
and you have to look at history again — during these years, Schein
discovered or claimed
to have discovered the existence of artificially produced mesotrons,
pimesons; probably
pi-mesons, maybe mu-mesons. I don’t know whether they knew the
difference in those
days.
Weiner:
No, pi-mesons was during this period; mu-mesons was the same that was
later given to
what Anderson and Neddermeyer discovered.
Feynman:
I know what they are. But I don’t know at this time whether the mesons
that Schein
supposedly created at GE were supposed to be pi-mesons or mu-mesons, or
whether,
when he discovered them, in fact pi-mesons were known. Anyway, Schein
discovered
mesons (one or the other kind), made by the GE synchrotron, in cloud
chamber tracks.
The energy of the synchrotron was not enough to create a particle of
this mass, so there
was something confusing about the situation. The thing got in all the
papers, and the
General Electric Co. was delighted. And it was even in their
advertisements. Bethe who
likes to worry about such things, began to analyze the situation, and
worked out
formulas for the probability of seeing a curve — you see, the momentum
was measured
by the curvature of the tracks in a magnetic field — having the wrong
curvature due to
scatterings accumulating, by statistics, accidentally. He showed, by
statistical analysis, that
Schein was underestimating severely the errors in curvature due to
scattering. In fact,
Bethe worked out the important thing for cloud chamber work, then, which
was the
probability theory of the errors in curvature measurements due to
scattering. He argued
with Schein about the mesons and, one day, he went to General Electric
to have the final
21
argument with Schein. He had all these formulas prepared and everything
else. And he
took me with him. I was there with him, and this was a wonderful
experience, because I
was just a young guy. It must have been rather early. We went into a
room. In those
days, the key instrument for looking at plates was some kind of
projected light that
would come up from below the plate. You’d look at the plates that they
would take,
pictures in the cloud chamber, and you’d have a light underneath so you
could see the
pictures. You’d stand over them and look at the plate. I remember this
room. It would
make a great scene in a movie, because the light comes up from below,
you see, and all
these faces, and the two great brains looking down, Bethe and Schein
looking at this.
And the smaller ones, Schein’s assistants and so on, with their heads no
so clear because
they’re further from the light, looking worried at the plate. And I was
looking also at the
plate, looking, and the smoke was rising in the room; you could see it
in the light, and
some on. Schein said, “We have lots of plates, and some of them are very
good.” Bethe
said, “Let me see them.” So Schein puts one plate on there, and Bethe
says, “But look,
the gas seems to be swirling. You see these other tracks over here?
They’re curved too,
so that this extra curvature may have been swirling of the gas.” “Well,
we have another
one.” So he shows another one. This is a track due to something else,
you see, and so on.
On each plate, he noticed something the matter with it. Then he said,
“And then there’s
the statistical thing.” Schein said, “Yes, but the chance that this
would be statistics, even
according to your own formula, is one in five.” “But we have already
looked at five
plates,” said Bethe. And so on. This kept going. Then they said, “We
have lots and lots
of them.” When they went to look for the lots and lots, none of them
were really any
good. They were all tendencies in the direction. What happens to it —
this is interesting,
this is the way science works, I found out — what happens to a person,
when they
believe something, is that they see a few that look like it, which are
due to something
else. Then they believe in the existence of the thing. Then all the rest
of the things which
are not good become corroborative evidence, no one bit of which is very
strong, but
seems to be in large amount. But the moment that you propose that it
isn’t true, all the
corroborative evidence just disappears. I mean, it’s just a very small
business — it’s just
selection of a special plate, that looks like it’s in the right
direction. It is not strong. And
so one can build up an argument and believe something, and think it has
a large amount
of weight, when actually if you go and look carefully at it the weight
is very weak, and
each item is weak and it doesn’t add up to much. So, anyhow, Schein’s
objection finally
was, “But on my plates, each one of the good plates, each one of the
good pictures, you
explain by a different theory, whereas I have one hypothesis that
explains all the plates,
that they are mesons.” “The sole difference,” Bethe says, “between your
and my
explanations is that yours is wrong and all of mine are right. Your
single explanation is
wrong, and all of my multiple explanations are right.”
Weiner:
Was this a friendly type of exchange?
22
Feynman:
Yes. But anyway, that was the demolishment of the Schein meson.
Weiner:
This is Marcel Schein?
Feynman:
Yes. That was the end of it. There were no mesons. The reason I tell you
the story is the
following. Very soon after that I was invited to Berkeley, California,
by Mr. Lawrence, to
come and look and visit the laboratory. So I ran off and did it. It was
at the end of the
year, the school year, and I had forgotten to hand in my grades, so I
got really
admonished (is that the right world?) by the authorities at Cornell for
this. But I rushed
off to California — and nobody knew where the hell I was because I
forgot to tell
anybody — to visit Lawrence, who wanted to show me his laboratory and so
on.
Anyway, he showed me the laboratory, and he took me down and I saw
Caltech, and he
took me to Laguna, to his home —
Weiner:
You mean you saw Berkeley?
Feynman:
I saw Berkeley. And he took me down south to show me Caltech. And then
we went to
Laguna Beach down here, to his beach house, where we went swimming and
boating and
so on. I knew Lawrence very well. We had quite a time with him and his
family. I stayed
with him for a while — some period, I don’t know — and I saw Berkeley.
Weiner:
What was your impression of him as a person?
Feynman:
I liked him as a person. He’s a nice man, a very good fellow. I didn’t
want to go to
Berkeley ultimately, because I felt that what they would do is they
would build more
machines, bigger and bigger machines. He said, “No, no, we’re going to
stop building
bigger machines.” It’s incredible. “And just do research on them.” But
actually they did
both, which is the right combination.
23
Weiner:
What would have been your objection to the machines?
Feynman:
I don’t want to build machines, I want to do experiments. Or think about
experiments. I
don’t just want to build the machines. In those days, what they used to
do is, they’d build
a machine and then they wouldn’t do very many experiments. They’d get
involved in
building another machine. Other people would build a machine like
theirs, from their
experience, and make use of it. That was those days. Nowadays they’ve
finally become a
leader, because they always had the most energetic machines but the
sloppiest
experiments. Somebody else would always have to build another machine of
the same
energy to do good experiments. But more recently, they’ve built the big
machines —
even though somebody else may do so also — and they do very, very fine
work. But in
those days, it was very quick experiments. In other words, what they
hadn’t learned yet
was that when they build a machine, they have to build the instruments
to go with it,
instruments that are just as sophisticated as the machine, to make good
measurements.
They used to build a machine, a great machine, and then put a penny in
front in the
beam. You know, that kind of clever, quick, and dirty so-called
experiments, but they
were always quick and dirty.
Weiner:
When did all this change?
Feynman:
Gradually, with the recent guys with the newest machines.
Weiner:
In the 50s — since ‘55, do you think?
Feynman:
Anyway, I thought that that would continue, and I didn’t want to stay
there. I liked it
where I was, but anyway I didn’t go.
Weiner:
Who did you meet when you were there?
24
Feynman:
I wanted to tell — oh, I met people, I don’t know — but I wanted to tell
a story, an
amusing story. They told me that they had discovered an anti-proton. So,
I know it’s
impossible because it’s a 384 MEV cyclotron with which they say they
discovered the
negative proton, and that’s not enough energy. Same difficulty as with
Schein. And you
know, if you go to a magic show, and you have a half belief that magic
is possible, then
you don’t understand a number of the phenomena that you see. But if you
know it’s
impossible, then you keep working until you find the explanation. The
same way, I knew
it was impossible, whereas they thought it might be possible because we
don’t know
enough. So I said, “All right, let me see.” So they got their
underlings. It wasn’t
Lawrence, it was somebody lower level. I don’t remember who — like me, I
was low
level too — and it was the same situation as Schein and Bethe but, say,
another notch
below. It was very amusing; it was the same situation exactly. In order
to show me the
plates that they had, they had to use the same kind of instruments, same
dark room,
same group of people looking, only this time it was smaller fry, you
know. So it was the
same game, and I had learned exactly what to do from Bethe, on each
track to find out
what was the matter. And they had a very very similar situation. They
said, “We have a
whole lot of them,” and then they couldn’t find the lot when they were
looking for them.
They had good ones. Anyway, they had one. Finally. It focused on the
one. It was the
most beautiful track for a proton, for an anti-proton, you have ever
seen — clean, clear,
it curved the wrong way. But I know there are no anti-protons. It was
one of these great
victories; it was wonderful. See, I deduced that the only way that this
track curved the
way it did was because it must be a proton; therefore, it must be going
the other way.
You know what the negative looked like? The wrong curvature. It’s
obvious. I know it’s
a proton, so it must be coming from the other side. It is obvious that
it has to be coming
backwards through the chamber. So I say, “You must have some matter
around this
somewhere.” “No, none whatsoever. This chamber is just a very thin glass
wall chamber
with nothing around it.” “Well,” I said, “I haven’t seen the design, but
it usually is
necessary to hold the upper and lower plates together on such a chamber,
to keep the
pressure, you know.” They said, “Oh, yes, we have four thin bolts, only
so and so much
in diameter, that hold the two plates, you see.” So they had a plate
there, and I said,
“Well, right here” — I put my pencil down outside the picture –- “there
must be one of
those bolts.” So they got the drawing out, of the cloud chamber, and
they put it over the
picture, to fit, and I had my pencil right on a bolt. What happened was,
the proton hit
the bolt that holds the top chamber, and scattered backward. So I
demolished the anti-
proton before it was published, before any rumors had got very far. You
see, they’d said,
“We have others,” and so on, but the whole thing just collapsed in
exactly the same
matter. They had been completely convinced by the one perfect track, and
the others,
they were hopeful-thinking, and they weren’t really good evidence. And
so it was easy to
demolish the other ones, easier than it was to demolish this one.
Weiner:
25
It was about nine years before they finally came up with one.
Feynman:
Of course, because a negative proton can’t be made with that energy. It
requires 6 billion
volts. But that was fun. I had fun because I’d learned — I’d learned,
you see, from
watching Bethe, how to think about these things. And I had become fairly
good at
judging experiments as a result of that.
Weiner:
Berkeley, then, was no attraction for you.
Feynman:
No, it didn’t work. I didn’t decide to go there.
Weiner:
On that trip, you did see Caltech.
Feynman:
Only in passing.
Weiner:
Just to look at the campus.
Feynman:
That’s right, yeah.
Weiner:
But you really saw it later, when you went out in ‘50.
Feynman:
Yeah.
Weiner:
26
I see, for the six weeks —
Feynman:
That’s right, yeah.
Weiner:
You went to Paris somewhere in that Cornell period, didn’t you?
Feynman:
Yes. There was a meeting in Paris on physics, high energy physics or
something.
Weiner:
Was this one of a series of international symposiums?
Feynman:
No. They hadn’t begun yet, I don’t think. I’m not sure. They had these
things called the
Rochester Conferences, but they were always in Rochester up to that
time. This was
another meeting, I think. It was not too long after the war. However, it
was after I had
worked out my theories of electrodynamics, to some extent, because
people wanted to
know what they were, and so I was given some time to explain them, which
I did not
successfully do. It’s too complicated. I had too much stuff and I tried
to talk too fast,
and I talked English too fast for people who didn’t speak English, and
so on. Of course,
I had a wonderful time in Paris. It turned out I had found out before I
left that I knew
one of the girls who was dancing at the Lido. I had met her at Las
Vegas. And Paris is a
great place. So, I watched rehearsals at the Lido, went backstage — you
know, all kinds
of fun. But aside from that, I was at this meeting, and there were
discussions of different
things and I tried to explain my work, but I don’t feel I did very well.
At that meeting,
Ashkin had come I think from Berkeley. He was the other American, and he
came to
report on experimental results at Berkeley. He wasn’t at Berkeley, but I
think he was
given the information that they had discovered a neutral pion at
Berkeley, and that the
mass of the neutral pion was somewhat lower than the mass of the charged
pion. The
difference in the mass could be electromagnetic, maybe, because of the
charge. And so I
made a very quick calculation on the back of an envelope, while he was
talking, as to
how much the difference in energy might be expected to be. By this time,
I could do a
calculation in two minutes — while he was talking about it — and it was
the right order
of magnitude. The electrodynamics, which stopped at a million volts or
something, was
changed. So when he got finished talking, someone said that this was too
much
difference to be electromagnetic. I got up and said, “No, the formula
tor this thing is —”
boop boop, and “the cutoff of the mass of the proton would be just about
right to give
27
this much difference in electromagnetic mass. It’s quite feasible.” I
remember that
particular thing. It’s the only contribution I made that was worthwhile.
Weiner:
Did you get anything out of the meeting? You know, learn anything?
Feynman:
No. I can’t remember. I don’t get much out of meetings anyway. Well, I
don’t know —
no, it wasn’t the kind. I don’t remember. Maybe I talked to somebody
about some
problem and it got me started worrying about it — you know these things.
Like the pi-
meson, for instance, which I happen to remember. This was a new problem,
and I knew
something to do about it. Or some other problem would come up. I can’t
really
remember.
Weiner:
Was this in the period when you were formulating the final stages of
your
electrodynamics?
Feynman:
Yes, so it was partly some of that, yes. But I don’t know, exactly.
Dirac was there, Pauli
talked, they all talked. Then Pauli invited me to Zurich, so I went to
visit him there for
some short time, gave a lecture or something for a day or so. It was
interesting to me. All
this was interesting to me. I had never been in Europe before, but we
don’t need to go
into that personal aspect, the fun I had in Europe.
Weiner:
Pauli you had met at Princeton, right?
Feynman:
Yes, I had met him originally at Princeton.
Weiner:
As a student.
Feynman:
28
Right.
Weiner:
I’ll bring you back from Paris. Did you go to the Rochester Conferences
in the 40s when
you were at Cornell?
Feynman:
Yes.
Weiner:
What was it like? What do you think they accomplished? Let me just say
something — in
this period you had, it seems, the Rochester Conferences, which were
larger groups, and
then you had this small group of theoreticians assembling at Shelter
Island.
Feynman:
In my mind they get confused. It’s possible that one simply grew into
the other, or grew
to be so similar to the other that they got mixed up. But, of course, I
know that at these
other conferences, the information that was coming out of Berkeley,
which was the place
that had the highest energy, was this sloppy information that they were
measuring. I
remember one example of it, just for fun—it’s just amusing. You see, we
were always
getting a telegram from Berkeley. It was always very amusing and
characteristic to get a
telegram with the latest data, you see. Anyway, Serber was giving a talk
on the results
from Berkeley, and all these things about pi-mesons and what they did
and the cross-
sections for doing this and that, and so on. This always seemed to me,
and to most
others, I think, as a big mass of stuff which we didn’t know how to
handle, and didn’t
know what to do with. It was just a lot of data, you know. It was — at
least to me it was
— just a lot of data, and I didn’t know what to do with it. The
cross-section of pi’s on
carbon, and so on. Any number was all right, if the guy was talking —
any number. So
we were all sitting around, and we were kind of tired, hearing all this
stuff, and I was
feeling sleepy, and so on, and everybody seemed to be sleepy. It was
getting near lunch
time. And Serber says that they bombarded carbon with something, and
they made
mesons, and that they made five times as many positive mesons as
negative mesons. So
Wenzel, who was completely awake, yells, “What?” And then everybody
starts
discussing. There should be a symmetry, there were as many protons and
neutrons, and
there ought to be some kind of symmetry. Plus or minus should be more or
less the
same, with some slight differences, because it’s bombarded with a
proton. But it should
be more or less the same. I was so sleepy I didn’t notice. But anyway,
Wenzel says,
“What?” And we got discussing. At this meeting everything, even the
worst data, was
discussed very seriously, you know. So lots of things are discussed, and
this was another
one on top of it. We’d been discussing all morning, and we were sick and
tired about
29
understanding anything, and this was the last straw — here this thing
was not
understood either, you see. So we were discussing for a while, trying to
see how that
could happen. But everybody had different ideas of how it could be, and
so forth and so
on. I remember going to lunch, and Wenzel said to me, “Quite a morning.
All kinds of
data.” He says, “Of all the things, however, that we heard today,
there’s one
phenomenon whose explanation I do understand.” I said, “What’s that?” He
said, “That
there are five times as many positive as negative mesons produced.”
That’s the thing we
had the most trouble with. I said, “What do you mean? How do you
understand?”
“That’s simple,” he said. “It’s experimental error.” It turned out to
be. It was, oh, I don’t
know, maybe 10 or 20 percent extra, but not five times, it turned out
later. That was the
kind of stuff that was covered, you see. And we were worrying about all
these little
troubles, and parts of them were just errors.
Weiner:
At this time Cornell also started, I guess under Wilson at the time, a
machine of some
type.
Feynman:
Yes, we had a synchrotron at Cornell, but nothing much was coming out of
it at that
time. It was too low an energy at that time.
Weiner:
When did experimental results really start making a big difference in
your work? In this
period you were doing quantum electrodynamics, and this is not going to
upset you too
much.
Feynman:
No, it doesn’t bother me. I was trying to do mesons — trying to
understand mesons —
so I had work in trying to understand mesons, much of which is not
published, and so
on. So I was worrying about these matters to some extent. I had done a
lot of stuff after
the electrodynamics on meson theory, to try to avoid the perturbation
approximation
and so on, and I gradually became of the opinion that the meson theory,
if you avoided
the perturbation theory, wasn’t making any good sense.
Weiner:
This was in —
Feynman:
30
No, that was during a period of time, as time went on. I invented a
number of methods
to avoid perturbation theory, using the path integrals and operator
calculus and what not
and I got the impression, although I couldn’t work anything out very
rigorously, that if
coupling was large the phenomena were very different than would be
expected from the
theory, and different from experiment. So I didn’t believe it very
strongly.
Weiner:
The only other correspondence I have here, the Fermi thing, was on the
same general
subject. I found another letter, but I see it’s just another part of the
same
correspondence. So there’s nothing I want to ask you on that.
Feynman:
I think that takes care of everything.
Weiner:
Just one thing, about the draft board thing — you know, that encounter
with it.
Feynman:
You want the details? It’s just a personal thing. I mean, I don’t mind
that it’s personal; it
just has nothing to do with my work.
Weiner:
Well, you say it’s a well-known story told about you.
Feynman:
All right, I’ll tell you the story, in its detail, and you can just
throw it out if it’s too — all
right? OK. Well, this was after the war was over. They were still
looking for people for
the draft because of the Occupation forces and so on in Germany, and
they changed
some rule or something, that you had to take an examination even if
maybe you would
be deferred for occupational reasons or something like that. So I went
to take an
examination in Albany. I was working in GE at the time. In these exams
you go from
one booth to another. I don’t know, you may know how these exams — look,
you’re in
your BVDs. The doctors are all dressed nicely, and you go from one booth
to the other.
They suck blood in one booth and they do something else in another
booth, and so on.
Finally we get to Booth No. 13, Psychiatrist. In order to understand
what happened, you
have to understand my attitude to psychiatrists at the time. I thought
they were kind of
like witch doctors and that they were a lot of baloney and further, that
they ask a lot of
31
personal questions that were nobody’s business. On such an examination
it’s nobody’s
business — you know, I don’t have to answer — and they’re kind of
fakers, and so on.
Furthermore, I had just seen two moving pictures which had to do with
psychiatrists that
had made me very angry, you see. There was one of them, I think called
“Spellbound” or
something, in which a woman’s hand is stuck and she can’t play the
piano. I think that
was the story, or maybe it was the other one. She can’t play the piano.
She used to be a
great pianist, but her hands are frozen. She can’t touch the piano — it
goes on through
the whole movie. It’s boring as hell, and at the end of the plot, she
goes upstairs with the
psychiatrist into a room and they close the door. You don’t know what
happens in there.
Then, her family’s talking downstairs, and finally she comes out, comes
down the stairs
dramatically — hands still stuck, hands still stuck, you know? She sits
finally at the piano,
lifts these hands up — still stuck — and it’s very dramatic. Everybody’s
quiet. What’s
going to happen? She puts them down on the piano, and of course —
latatatalatada!
Everything’s fine! Well, this kind of baloney, you know, I can’t stand
it. So I’m very anti.
Ok? That’s necessary to understand. Well, the Psychiatry Booth 13, had
four
psychiatrists behind four desks, set parallel to each other, one next to
the other, with the
psychiatrist behind the desk and a chair at the side of the desk for one
to sit in, in his
BVDs. In spite of the fact that they had four of them, there was a sort
of a backlog, so
they had benches in front for the waiters to wait. So we waited. While
we were waiting, I
look at these fellows, and I see more or less what’s happening. A guy
will sit down, and
he has these papers with him on which everything is written — all this
information, his
name, address, and so on, on the front, plus all the other junk that the
doctors have
found out. And he hands it to the psychiatrist, and the guy looks up at
him with a very
pleasant nice little smile and a happy look, and then the fellow answers
some pleasantry
with another pleasantry, and they go back and forth a few minutes this
way. That’s all.
Well, I decided, I don’t care about these guys. I ain’t getting friendly
with them. I just
don’t’ want to be friendly. It’s none of their business. I’m not going
to be friendly, that’s
all. I mean, I just don’t like it. So that was the attitude, see. So
it’s my turn. I get up there,
sit down, and the fellow looks through my papers, and he turns to me and
he says,
“Hello, Dick! Where do you work?” Well, what the hell is he calling me
“Dick” for? You
know, he don’t know me that well. You understand what I mean? So I just
said to him,
“Schenectady” — in a tone, in a sense, “what’s it to you?” You know? So
he says,
“Where do you work at Schenectady, Dick?” I say, “GE.” “You like your
work, Dick?” I
say, “So, so.” You know, not a smile. I mean, I couldn’t like him less,
you know. Like a
guy bothering you in a bar when you don’t want him to. You’re trying to
shut him up. So
the fourth question is a complete change, complete transformation. The
attitude — the
smile disappears — it’s like a formula, you know. He says to me, “Do you
think people
talk about you?” So I say, “Yeah,” and I tried to explain. I wasn’t
trying to fake it. I said,
“Yes.” I meant in the sense that my mother talks to her friends, because
sometimes I
meet the friends and they say, “Your mother told me that you were doing
very well,” and
so and so, and I tried to explain -– honest — you know? Then he writes
something
down. Then he says, “Do you think people stare at you?” And I’m all
ready to answer
“No” when he says, “For example, do you think that any of the fellows
sitting at the
benches are looking at us now?” So I figure, this fourth thing — there
are about 12 guys
32
in the thing and about 3 of them are looking. Well, that’s all they’ve
got to do. So I say,
to be conservative, “Yeah, maybe two of them are looking at us.” He
says, “Well, just
turn around and look.” So I turn around, and sure enough, two guys are
looking. I say,
“Yeah, him and him.” But by having turned around and pointing, it was a
little different
from the other fellows, and other guys start to look. I say, “Now a
couple of other
fellows are looking. Now the whole bunch of them is looking at me.” And
this
nincompoop — this smart, sprain of a nut, doesn’t bother to turn around
and find out if
it’s true or not. He simply writes something else down. He doesn’t even
look to see if it’s
the fact of the matter. So then he asks me if I talk to myself, and I
admitted that I do. I
don’t know if it’s characteristic of theoretical physicists — I doubt —
but I do talk to
myself when looking in the mirror and thinking, see. Incidentally, I
didn’t tell him
something which I can tell you, which is I find myself sometimes talking
to myself in
quite an elaborate fashion. It goes something like this: “The integral
will be larger than
this sum of the terms, so that would make the pressure higher, you see?
No, you’re crazy.
No, I’m not, no, I’m not!” I say. I argue with myself -– “You’re crazy.
No I’m not.” And
so on. I have two voices that work back and forth. Anyhow, aside from
that, he writes
that down, and then he says, “I see you lost a wife recently. Do you
talk to her?” I said,
“Yeah, when I’m on a mountain all alone, sometimes I talk to her.” “And
what do you
say to her?” I said, “I tell her I love her, if it’s all right with
you.” So then he asked me
other questions. He says, “Do you ever hear voices in your head?” I say,
“No, very
rarely.” He says, “What do you mean, very rarely?” I said, “Well —
rarely. Two or three
times in my life.” He said, “What do you hear?” I said, “Well, I have a
situation —” I
was very interested in it, and I told him a little bit. I said, “If I
hear somebody talk in an
accent very hard for a long time, when I’m falling asleep I hear that
accent even when I
can’t reproduce it. So I pay attention because it’s a peculiar
phenomenon.” It happened,
incidentally, when I went to Chicago to find out how the atomic bomb
worked for the
people at Princeton. And for two days Teller was explaining to me about
the atomic
bomb in his Hungarian accent. Well, as I’d fall asleep, of course, I’d
hear the Hungarian
accent perfect. So that was an example that I had in mind. So he writes
something else.
Then he asks me if anybody in the family had any difficulties, mental
difficulties or
something. I say, “Yes, my mother’s sister is in an insane asylum.” He
says, “Why do you
call it an insane asylum? Why don’t you call it a mental institution?” I
said, “Because I
thought they were the same thing.” He said, “Just what do you think
insanity is?” I said,
“I thought it was a strange and peculiar disease of human beings.” “It’s
no more
strange,” says he, “than appendicitis.” So then we got off on an
argument that with
appendicitis, the details of the causes at least can be more or less
elucidated, whereas the
other thing is —. It turned out our argument was on this: that I meant
by “peculiar” an
interesting natural phenomenon, not well understood; that what he meant
by “peculiar”
was, it shouldn’t be considered socially odd or unacceptable. And that
was where we
were arguing for a while, until I realized what the debate was about —
that he meant it
was like appendicitis; a person is just sick. Ok. So this went on for a
while. Then he said
to me, “How much do you value life?” I said, “64.” He said, “Why do you
say 64?” I
said, “I thought it was a kind of a dumb question, and I tried to think,
I don’t know any
way to measure how much I value life, so I kind of imagined that I was
giving an
33
answer.” “No,” he says, “but why 64?” I said, “I just explained to you.
It was just an
arbitrary number.” “No, why didn’t you say 73?” I said, “If I said 73
you’d ask me the
same thing. You’d ask me the same question. It’s hopeless.” I couldn’t
get out from
under that. He asked me lots of questions about that answer. He bothered
me about that
answer because I couldn’t explain it to him, because he couldn’t imagine
that I should
imagine that the question was stupid. That was too hard for him. And why
should I
think the question was stupid? And so on. And we had a long tussle with
that one. It was
a bad answer. It didn’t work. Then, I don’t remember all the questions,
but I’ll give you
some more, if you like. Is this all right?
Weiner:
It’s interesting to me personally.
Feynman:
Then he went through the business of hitting you on the knee, you know,
and the jerk,
and the eye, and the pupil goes down, and so on. And then he asked me to
put out my
hands. And this was the first time that I really did something purposely
to make trouble,
because in the blood sucking line, in some earlier booth, some guy had —
just for a joke,
kids were talking, guys were talking — said, “Do you know what to do
when the
psychiatrist tells you to put out your hands?” And he showed us a trick
that was so damn
funny it was wonderful. When he asked me to put out my hands, I knew I
was so far
under water by this time that it was hopeless, and this was the only
opportunity that a
human being would really have to do this to a psychiatrist, see. So when
he asked me to
put out my hands, I put out my hands — with one palm up and the other
one down.
You see? So he says, “Turn them over.” So I turned them over, both of
them over, so
still one palm was down and the other up. This part nobody believes when
I tell them.
It’s hard for people to believe when I tell them — but he did not notice
that. No.
Because he was looking very closely at one hand, to see if the fingers
shook or
something like that. As far as I can make out, he was peering very hard
at one hand, I
guess looking for sweat in the palm or something, you see. And he told
me to turn it
over. I turned it over, but he didn’t notice that the other hand was the
opposite of that
one. So that didn’t go over so good. Then it went on like this, and I
don’t remember
more questions except, at the end of the interview, there was a sudden
shift again, and he
looks at the papers. “Well, Dick,” he says, “I see you have a PhD. Where
did you study?”
I said, “MIT and Princeton. Where did you study?” He said, “Yale and
London. And
what did you study, Dick?” I said, “Physics. And what did you study?” He
said,
“Medicine.” I said, “And this is medicine?” He said, “Yeah, what do you
think it is? You
go over there and sit down!” So I went over and I sat down on the bench.
He took his
papers over to another, to the next psychiatrist, see. Another man,
older, more sensible
and so on. This fellow had a culprit there he was talking to. So he
nodded, one minute,
and it was obvious I had to wait for this other guy. So sure enough,
when the first fellow
was done, I was called over and the second man starts in. He went
through exactly the
34
same pattern. He started out, “Hello, Dick. I see you were at Los
Alamos. There used to
be a boys’ school there, wasn’t there?” “Yeah.” “Well, Dick, were there
any of the old
buildings from the school there?” “Well, there were some buildings from
the school, but
the government built a lot of stuff too.” Then something “Dick” again,
third question, I
can’t remember, but that was the pattern. Fourth question — change of
voice, same idea,
see — exactly the same pattern — and the fourth question was something I
can’t
remember, but among the questions later was the question, “Do you
believe in the
supernormal?” So I said I don’t know what the supernormal is. He said,
“What, you, a
PhD in physics, don’t know what the supernormal is?” “That’s right.”
“It’s the stuff Sir
Oliver Lodge and those people believe in!” I said, “Oh you mean the
supernatural?” He
said, “You can call it that if you will.” I said, “All right, I will,
but I don’t believe in it.”
He said, “Do you believe in mental telepathy?” I said, “No, do you?” He
said, “I’m
keeping an open mind.” So I said, “What, you, a psychiatrist, keeping an
open mind?” I
had fun with him. Then he asked me details about the voices that I hear
as I fall asleep,
and I try to give in much more detail that it was very, very rare, and
that because I’m
scientifically inclined, I noticed it. And I went through all this
stuff, and that it was only
when the accent was very strong and for a long period of time. And I
said, “Doesn’t
everybody have something like that once in a while?” And he put his
fingers over his
mouth, you see, and you could see the smile through the holes between
his fingers, this
superior smile. These guys just get — they’re so damn — what do you call
it? Pat. I
mean, they’re so convinced of themselves. They don’t have to consider
the possibility
that they could be wrong.
Weiner:
Smug.
Feynman:
Smug, yeah exactly. I’ll tell you what that was about, so you’ll
understand those
questions. The other fellow had written that I talked to my deceased
wife, so he was
trying to find out whether I believed in the supernatural. I mean, this
is my interpretation
of it. Or in mental telepathy, because if I believed in those two
things, it wasn’t insane to
talk to my deceased wife. If I don’t believe in them, I’m really a nut.
See? Anyway, this
fellow starts in, and I couldn’t help but tease him at the end. I loved
to tease him,
because he said to me — one of the questions was, “Do you consider
yourself different
or peculiar in any way? Different from other people?” I said — and I had
to tease him,
because I just couldn’t stand it — so I said, “Oh, I don’t consider
myself different from
anybody —” just opened another hole, you know. “Well,” he said, “in any
way do you
consider yourself, somehow or other that you don’t behave like others,”
and so on.
“Well, I wouldn’t —” and so on, he dragging it out of me and me holding
it back. Finally
I said, “Well, yes, when I go to parties, I get wild like I’m drunk, and
have a very good
time, as if I have a lot of — when I don’t drink very much.” So he says,
“Does anybody
ever tease you about this?” I said, “Well, I wouldn’t say they tease
me,” and so on. You
35
know, this same thing, this kind of a game—I drew it out a long time,
you know, and
finally admitted that they call me “Two Beer Feynman,” because it only
takes me two
beers to get drunk. So he wrote something else down. And then he gave me
the papers.
Then I went off to the next booth, where you jump up and down to see if
your ankle
bones are OK or something. I had fun. I had a lot of side things. I
looked at the list,
though. On the front it had “D”, for psychiatric, and “N” for everything
else. “D” was
deficient, “N” is normal. I looked on the inside to see what this fellow
wrote, and if I’d
seen it written and not known the situation, I would have believed it
myself. It starts out:
“Thinks people talk about him. Thinks people stare at him. Talks to
self. Talks to
deceased wife, died June, 1946. Hypnogogic hallucinations.” That means
generated by
sleep, I presume. Something like “peculiar stare.” I think it was
probably when I said,
“And this is medicine?” I don’t know. The other fellow I couldn’t read —
oh, “Maternal
sister in mental institution,” you know. It looked good. When written in
a technical
jargon, it sounds so much more powerful you know, than “my mother’s
sister is in an
insane asylum” — “maternal sister in…” So then the other fellow writes,
and he must
have been more important, because I couldn’t read his writing so well —
it was scrawled,
not listed so neatly, and I couldn’t read it all. Probably something he
said like “gets drunk
on two beers,” but one thing it did say — “auditory hypnotic
hallucinations confirmed,”
or “auditory hypnogogic hallucinations confirmed.”
Weiner:
You hear voices.
Feynman:
That’s what it means, auditory — hypnogogic, at the time you’re going to
sleep —
hallucinations, voices that aren’t there. He confirmed it. Well, ok.
Well, anyway, any guy
with that disease confirmed is really in trouble. But I still thought
that these guys are kind
of, you know — I mean, nobody believes in this crazy joke, and good
practical men
don’t pay much attention to it. And at the end of the thing, there was a
good practical
man. There was a military officer who was hard as nails, and was trying
to drag the
bottom of the barrel, because they just needed them for occupation
forces and it wasn’t
so important any more. He’s the guy who decides that you’re not in or
you are in. The
ear doctor says, he can’t hear out of one ear, and this guy decides,
therefore, he shouldn’t
be in the Army, or it’s not enough to make it serious. So he was the
final arbiter. And he
was very careful. He talked a long time to everybody. They guy ahead of
me had bumps
in the back of his neck. Something’s the matter with his bones sticking
out. The fellow
doesn’t believe it. He’s got to feel the bones, ask lots of questions,
make sure how
serious is this thing, you know. So I figured, ok, with him I’ll
explain, I just didn’t want
to get friendly, and this is what happened. So I hand the stuff to him.
He opens up the
paper. He puts his head down to read it. He doesn’t look up. As he reads
it, he puts his
hand out for the rejection stamp without looking up at all, stamps the
thing “Rejected,”
and hands me the paper still looking straight down, and does not say a
word. That’s all.
36
Not a question, nothing. People are afraid of that, you know.
Weiner:
He didn’t look at you?
Feynman:
Didn’t look at me, didn’t talk to me, didn’t ask anything, didn’t say a
word, and didn’t try
to find out if maybe it’s wrong. Like if the doctor says, “This guy’s
got bumps sticking
out,” you do something. But he says, “He’s a little bit nuts,” you’re
afraid to ask
questions. Very amusing. The only thing that bothered me after that was
that during the
war, my draft board was getting letters saying that this guy’s
important. He’s doing
research in physics; we need him, we need him, we need him. Now they’re
getting letters
saying, he’s teaching scientists at the university. It’s important. He’s
teaching these
scientists. This is very valuable, and so on. Now all of a sudden they
get a thing: he’s off
his rocker. One natural conclusion might be that he tried to fool the
draft board because
he got scared. You know? So I was worried that I would get into some
kind of difficulty.
At least, I was worried about it. So I wrote my draft board a letter
which ran more or less
as follows: “Local Board No. 1: Dear Sirs: I do not think I should be
drafted because I
am teaching future scientists, and it is partly on the strength of her
future scientists that
the national welfare lies. If you do not consider this sufficient reason
to defer me, you
may still wish to defer me because of my medical examination, in which I
was found to
be psychiatrically unfit. I do not believe that any weight whatsoever
should be attached
to this examination as I consider it to be a gross error. I am calling
this error to your
attention because I am insane enough not to wish to take advantage of
it.” Actually, it
wasn’t quite that beautifully done. That’s the outline. I also included
in the letter an
explanation of why I thought they made an error or how they made an
error. Just so it
wasn’t just that clever. But that was my original intention, just to
write that. But then I
thought, to be honest I should write a P.S. explaining why I thought it
was in error.
Weiner:
You thought you needed to set the record straight.
Feynman:
Yeah, I did. I told them why I thought it must be an error. But their
response to that was
to send me a card marked “4F.” No questions asked. So that’s what
happened. So that’s
how it looks to society when the scientist meets with society. And
they’re always talking
nowadays of wanting to show that — you know I’m human like anybody else.
If I were
human like anybody else I would have passed the medical examination!
37
Weiner:
Throw that in their faces.
Feynman:
Yeah.
Weiner:
Well, do you want to stop the tape for a minute?
Feynman:
Yeah, I do, because I’m getting tired.
Weiner:
All right, we’re on again, after a brief break for lunch.
Feynman:
You’ll make the people hungry who are transcribing the tape.
Weiner:
You should tell them what we had, and then they’ll have a prejudice,
now. Before we
were sort of backing up and filling in the chronology of events. We had
gotten up to
accepting the offer at Caltech, and in your own mind making it clear,
during the Brazilian
stay, that you definitely would follow through on your acceptance. After
10 months in
Brazil, where did you go; directly to Caltech, or to New York?
Feynman:
I’m mixed up. Yes — Brazil must have been 10 months. But I’m mixed up, I
don’t
know.
Weiner:
Well, let me tell you what you said.
Feynman:
38
I know what I said, but you straighten it out because I’ve got another
fact which
confuses me. Somehow along the line, I’d been traveling west all the
time, trying to get
to see the west. I always got stuck at Las Vegas. And I wanted to see
Los Angeles. So
one summer I arranged to get myself a job working at the Institute for
Numerical
Analysis at UCLA. And after I got the job, I think, I got the job at
Caltech for the winter
after. So it was unnecessary to go to Los Angeles for that summer. But I
had already
made the arrangements, so I went. I took my mother that summer on a trip
to Mexico,
and then ended up at this Institute of Numerical Analysis for the rest
of the summer.
She stayed in Westwood Village. I’m just trying to think, because I
can’t figure out which
summer that was. At the same time, I thought that I was in Brazil for
the summer, for 10
months. But 10 months isn’t an entire year, so there may be some way of
figuring out
from that. I don’t know. I worked at the Institute of Numerical
Analysis, and then I
started working at Caltech.
Weiner:
Possibly it was before you went to Brazil for the 10 months. It may have
been, at the
time you went you had decided — Caltech said, “We’ll send you for a
year” — you
weren’t going to do anything with that money till after the year was
out, to determine
whether you’d come back to Caltech. And that was after you’d been here
for six weeks?
Feynman:
Maybe the Institute was a job I took, and then got this opportunity to
be here for six
weeks.
Weiner:
Yes, I think so.
Feynman:
So therefore I was disappointing my — yeah, that’s very likely. That’s
possible.
Weiner:
And then the following year you were in Brazil. Now my question is, if
it’s at all
important, did you go from Brazil directly — from Rio directly to
Caltech, or did you
come back East?
Feynman:
I don’t know. Sooner or later I moved from the East to Caltech and
started regular
39
work, living here, working here.
Weiner:
This was in ‘51, I gather. When you got here, did you have a teaching
load the first year?
How did this compare to the Cornell teaching?
Feynman:
Well, it wasn’t much of a load in either place. There’s usually one or
two courses, I think
two courses.
Weiner:
These were graduate courses?
Feynman:
Yeah. So it was no particular problem. I don’t remember what I taught.
Weiner:
Whom did you get acquainted with on the faculty?
Feynman:
Everybody. Somehow or other it isn’t very interesting. I don’t remember
any excitement
associated with the first few years or anything. It seems to me I’ve got
nothing else to
say. I just did my work from then on, and everything has been quiet and
pleasant. I’m
trying to remember.
Weiner:
Where did you live?
Feynman:
I lived in a house behind Mr. Ward, a professor of mathematics at
Caltech. He had a
small house behind his home that they had made for some grandparent who
had died or
something like that. I lived in that little house. It was a nice little
place, very near to the
campus, within walking distance. I used to live there and walk to the
campus. But I guess
I did nothing during that first year, as far as I can remember.
40
Weiner:
There were papers published, but they may have been follow-ups of the
preceding
period. One was a paper from the second Berkeley Symposium on
Mathematical
Statistics and Probability in 1950. It was published in 1951, “The
Concept of Probability
in Quantum Mechanics.”
Feynman:
Well, I think that I went from Caltech to that Berkeley symposium.
Weiner:
Yes, that helps fix some dates.
Feynman:
I was just invited to that by, I think, Cox. It was just a symposium on
probability, and
they said they would like some discussion on Quantum Mechanics. When I
had lived in
the Telluride House, the boys had some kind of a thing on Wednesday
night, in which
each person gave a lecture on some subject to the others. This was a
sort of party, and
they asked a faculty member also to do it. That was me. They would
suggest a topic that
they were interested in, and one topic was, “What is all this stuff
about waves and
particles?” So I invented a half an hour or 40 minute speech or
something, which was
the condition of the thing, to explain this puzzle of waves and
particles to intelligent
creatures that didn’t have physics background. And I just developed that
same thing, that
same speech, a little further at the Berkeley Symposium. You’ll find
that’s Lecture 37,
fundamentally, in the Lecture Notes on Physics that I later gave.
Really, way back then, I
gradually understood what the fundamental character of quantum mechanics
was. It
starts from way back then. As a matter of fact, I’ll just take this
small opportunity to say
— if I forget to say it later — that I’ve often been challenged about
speeches. I’m often
challenged to give a speech to intelligent but not very highly trained
people, on one or
another subject in science. For example, my first wife asked me what
relativity was, why
is the time shifted. And I invented a way to explain why the time was
shifted in a moving
space ship, rather than still, that even an untrained person could
understand. That
appears in a lecture on relativity — the moving clock business — in a
lecture on
relativity in these lectures on physics. This other thing I’m talking
about was on quantum
mechanics, explaining the principle. I liked that kind of problem, and I
worked very
hard. Then, when I first came out here, there was a series of lectures
called Friday
Evening Demonstration Lectures. Professor Watson was in charge of it. He
told me that
people had written in a number of times suggesting topics, and one
suggestion was, the
relation of the mechanics of Einstein to the mechanics of Newton, and
would I like to
give that lecture? So I prepared a lecture on relativity for that
purpose, which is one of
the lectures, essentially, in that Lectures on Physics. After I gave
that lecture, someone
41
else wrote in that this man seemed to be able to explain more or less
direct things like
that, but how would he deal with a thing that’s abstract, like the
conservation of energy?
How do you explain that, describe that? So I was challenged to give a
lecture on the
conservation of energy, and that appears in those things. I’m trying to
explain that the
Lectures on Physics which are given here were really the result of an
accumulation of
challenges, which I tried to answer in popular lectures in different
places.
Weiner:
This was the first opportunity you had to give them continuously?
Feynman:
Well, I used them. It was the other way around. I didn’t want an
opportunity to put them
in continuous form. I tried to teach, and I had the good fortune of
having a number of
them already prepared. You must remember that those lectures were given
two a week,
and to prepare two lectures a week of this character was hard work.
Anyhow, the
Berkeley Symposium is not an important paper of any kind. It’s no
research whatever.
It’s just a discussion of physics — quantum mechanics. It’s just one of
a large number of
lectures of this kind that I gave that happened to have been recorded.
Weiner:
I see. Well, then, in ‘52, there’s no publications except the one with
Laurie Brown. We
talked about that before.
Feynman:
That was some Cornell work.
Weiner:
The next publication is in ‘53, “The Lambda Transition in Liquid
Helium.” That
apparently begins a new series of papers.
Feynman:
Yes.
Weiner:
What got you interested in that?
42
Feynman:
Professor Cox. I remember doing some unpublished research which I would
like to
mention. They had found these strange particles, these peculiar “Hooks,”
they called
them here and V particles and so on, in those days. The cosmic ray
people had found
them — Leighton and Anderson and so on. And there was much discussion of
them —
they were discovered in other places, too — and what it was all about.
And I had a
number of experiences with them on these things. One of the more
interesting ones was
that Leighton asked me some questions about the particles or something,
and I said,
“Listen, Bob, we don’t understand these particles, why they should exist
or anything
about them. So theory is not really able to say anything. Now, you might
find people
saying things, but on no basis, because they’re completely unexpected
and there’s no way
to say anything about them.” It was only about that night or the day
after that I began to
think about it again, and I realized that there was a paradox of some
kind, unless these
things were made in pairs. In other words, when one strange particle was
made, another
had to be made along with it. So the next Thursday or something Leighton
was giving a
seminar, research conference talk, and I told them this fact, and he
laughed at me and
said, “I thought that theoretical physicists couldn’t say anything about
it.” I said, “Well, I
was wrong.” And after he had given his talk, I was given 15 minutes to
explain this thing.
I remember distinctly saying, “I am sticking my neck out. These things
are produced —
when one is produced, another strange particle of some kind, maybe the
same thing or
something else, is produced along with it.” They had no evidence of
this. They claimed
that if that were the case, they would see more plates with two such
things on it that they
didn’t see, so they were arguing against it. And at that meeting, Willie
Fowler suggested
that maybe it’s like radioactive decay. He resolved the paradox another
way — because
the energy was different, the rate of decay was different. It’s
technical, rather. There may
be some kind of barrier to disintegration, like there is in radioactive
decay. I thought
about that for a while and I realized that it might be possible. When
Fermi came, I
discussed that with him, and he suggested the barrier of centrifugal
force or something.
We thought about it. I don’t know whether he suggested it or he liked
that idea or
something. And we gradually realized that another possibility was that,
instead of their
being made in pairs, it might be that they were objects of high angular
momentum.
That’s another alternative. But in fact, they were made in pairs, as was
discovered later. I
remember that was very early. Just before Fermi visited, I guess. I
don’t remember this in
terms of dates. But that was interesting because I remember predicting,
claiming this,
and they said that they didn’t see it in the plates. It’s too bad,
because they did have
plates with more than one on them, about that time or later, that could
have shown they
were on the right track.
Weiner:
This was unpublished. How did the explanation, then, become effective?
Feynman:
43
Others thought of it.
Weiner:
And published it?
Feynman:
Yeah.
Weiner:
That’s curious. Is there any record of your paper on this?
Feynman:
No. I didn’t make a paper. No, I just talked. I just said so, in the
colloquium. Then,
another stage in this game — I’m just saying this to show the kind of
thing I was doing
at the time, all right? Another stage of this game, they had a lot of
data accumulated for
the disintegration of what was called a V meson, which is now called a
Lambda meson.
And other people thought that they saw that in the disintegration, the
energy was always
unique; the sum of the energies of the disintegrated fragment, which is
now known to be
a proton or pion, always added to the same amount. Leighton and his
group, however,
found that it was distributed, that it wasn’t always the same amount. So
there was some
discussion about the question. So I went down to Leighton’s office and I
looked at the
plates, and said, “How do you measure? How do you do this? How do you do
that?”
And he explained how you measure ionization, and how you estimate the
accuracy of it,
and all this other stuff. So he went out, and I stayed there in the
laboratory and measured
all his plates by myself. I compared the ionization to the ionization of
other protons on
the plate. I realized, by looking at different tracks, that the
illumination intensity was not
equal all over the plate, on certain pictures, because of the lighting,
and therefore they
would underestimate the darkness of the track, and so on. I went through
all the things,
over an evening, and concluded that the smallness of the errors was
exaggerated by the
other people. The errors were, as far as I could see, bigger than they
thought. I wrote a
letter to Bethe, which I probably never mailed but I have a copy of, in
which I told him
that in my opinion, it is still possible that they disintegrate only
into one energy, and that
the arguments of Caltech to the contrary are not good. I felt kind of
proud. See, Bethe
had taught me how to evaluate experiments, and of course it turned out
in fact that the
energy was unique and that the statements from Caltech that they were
not unique were
erroneous, and due just to the things that I had noticed. I tell you
this because of pride in
doing something that was a little out of my usual line.
44
Weiner:
This was the first time that you really did the technical work?
Feynman:
It wasn’t so technical. It was easy. First, they said this was twice
normal ionization, or
once normal, and I would estimate it and compare it and look carefully
at the plates. I
just went through the plates to make sure. And I’m usually pretty fair
at judging the
experiment, whether it’s really OK or it’s exaggerated accuracy and so
on.
Weiner:
The cosmic ray group here, Leighton, Anderson —
Feynman:
I talked to them a lot, and, you know, kind of gave half advices and so
on.
Weiner:
Were you considered sort of theorist-in-residence?
Feynman:
So to speak, but not only that. I mean I would do it once in a while
rather intensively —
just look at everything in detail, then go away and not do anything for
a while, you see.
Weiner:
Does this continue, by the way — the idea of being called in by
different physics groups?
Feynman:
Oh, yeah. Often people would talk to me about all kinds of things, you
know. It was
perpetual. I don’t know where all the time goes. You can’t ever find it,
but I’m always
yakking to somebody about something. I can only remember the times that
came out
pretty good, you know. So I have this letter, I remember, to Bethe,
because I kind of felt
that it was important. He was worried about it. And I don’t think I
mailed it.
Weiner:
Why didn’t you —
45
Feynman:
Oh, I don’t know, I don’t get around to it — writing is for me — you
know, I didn’t get
around to it. I don’t know.
Weiner:
I should think that after you went to all the trouble of writing it —
Feynman:
Well, I went to the trouble for my own interest, really.
Weiner:
To express your ideas, you mean.
Feynman:
No. Not to write it — to write it, I don’t know why, maybe — I don’t
know, I can’t tell
you, I don’t know. But mostly I did this for my own interest, and the
question, is it or
isn’t it? And they say it isn’t, while the other guy says it is. There’s
a puzzle, I’ve got to
find out, are they wrong or are we wrong? I decided we were wrong.
Weiner:
There’s a lot on this generally, and probably still is, in the
background, that will not show
up in published data.
Feynman:
Oh, yeah, there’s a lot of it. I do an awful lot of that kind of thing.
Weiner:
Was it done in an organized way, in terms of colloquia, too, as well as
just sitting in or
being called in when they had a problem?
Feynman:
Well, they don’t just call me in when they have a problem. I mean, they
tell me about
something, and I ask them questions, you know. I hear about something.
46
Weiner:
You involve yourself.
Feynman:
Yeah, yeah, sure.
Weiner:
Were there any weekly colloquia that you would attend?
Feynman:
Yes. Every Thursday we have a colloquium, a general thing on all
different aspects of
physics, depending on who’s talking about that. Outsiders come, insiders
talk, and so on.
But that was another one. There was another amusing one of the same
kind. This was
fund, too. A student of Jesse DuMond from the X-ray department was
talking about
researches he’d done on a very new instrument that Jesse had designed,
for very very
accurate gamma ray measure. It measures energies of gamma rays by
crystal reflection,
which was a different way and very accurate. And he was describing the
gamma rays
which came from some lead nucleus. And they were quite complicated, many
levels and
so on. Then he showed the energy level system that this nucleus would
have to have to
produce these lines. Well, I looked at it, and it was kind of nuts. It
had levels like 100
kilovolts apart, which is all right for a nucleus, but then each of
those levels was split
very fine, like — well, I can’t remember now, but maybe 1000 volts
apart. See, like three
levels up there a thousand volts apart, and three levels at the bottom,
or four, at a
thousand. And that’s just crazy. I mean, it’s too small energy
differences, too many
levels, for a nucleus. So I said to the guy, “Do you mean those are
really the energy levels
of the lead nucleus?” So he says, “Yeah.” And I say, “That’s can’t be.
There must be
something else. It’s something to do with x-rays, its electrons
something, it’s x-rays,” and
so on. See, Bacher had just said, “Our colloquia are too stiff. We
should have more
arguments.” So I raised in kind of a humorous fashion, “Don’t be
absurd,” you know,
and all this kind of thing, to do what Bacher said for the fun of it.
And Jesse DuMond
was there when Bacher said this too, so for the fun of it he livened it
up and said,
“Those are not x-rays! I know x-rays!” he says, “and if those are x-rays
I’ll eat my hat.” I
said, “All right, I’ll say it — I know nuclear physics, and if those are
nuclear levels, I’ll eat
two hats!” We had lots of fun, everybody laughing, it was great. But
that night, I went
into Jesse’s lab. He gave me all the graphs, the curves and the data. I
looked over all the
data carefully and finally decided what it was. Each line was multiple
because there was
some scattering; it turned out, from the jaws of the slit. I could
identify L-lines and K-
lines and so on of lead from the jaws of the slit — a complication. What
he thought
would be a line was a multiple image, because of reflections and
scattering in the jaw of
the slit, and he was interpreting the reflected images of other lines,
and it wasn’t. So I
47
figured it out by looking at all this stuff, and measuring and figuring
and calculating and
noticing some coincidences of the splittings, until I unraveled the
puzzle. So that was
another one where I had fun interpreting an experiment. I’ve had some
experiences in
interpreting experimental things. But that’s not very important. I just
mention those
things, because you want to know what I’m like and what I enjoy doing.
And you know,
these little successes are fun. You beat the other guy out, you know
what I mean? It’s
fun. And so on.
Weiner:
Let me just —
Feynman:
Not just to beat the other guy out, but to find out what the hell’s
going on.
Weiner:
In ‘53, sometime in ‘53, you went to a conference at Tokyo. Was that
anything of any
special significance?
Feynman:
Before that I had worked on the helium. I had started the helium. The
way I got started
on the helium is, I think — in fact, I’m pretty sure — that Cox had come
here to give
some lectures, and was lecturing as usual on the Onsager problem. Now, I
must say that
I had invented a number of methods, the path integral method and also
the operator
calculus, and what I would almost always do, when I heard a new problem
of complexity
in quantum mechanics or another field, I would wheel up these two
machines, so to
speak, and try to see if I couldn’t apply them to these problems. So I
was working on the
Onsager problem with some crazy business with the path integrals, and
was fiddling
around. Incidentally, I got married in the meantime, to my second wife,
yeah. I was
fiddling around with it, and got kind of stuck and confused, and found
out that I had
made a mistake. I thought I was making progress, but I was mixed up.
There was an
error, and the method wasn’t going to work. But, I said to myself; this
method doesn’t
work here, but it probably could be useful on the helium problem, the
question of how
the helium 4 transition comes about.
Weiner:
Had you been concerned with the helium problem before?
Feynman:
48
Well, not directly, but it was one of the well-known puzzles of man. And
I understood
the puzzle wrong. When I was at Cornell, some guy, Kirshner or somebody,
a young
man, gave a lecture on the helium problem, the helium 4, and we were
told then that
there were two theories. One was that it was a consequence of quantum
hydrodynamics
or something, and the other was that it was analogous to the Bose
condensation of gas.
London’s idea had to do with the statistics of the helium, that the wave
function must be
symmetrical. The other was just that it was some general quantum
mechanical thing of
any liquid. The one was due to Tisza and London, and the other was due
to Landau.
Landau’s was the view that it was a general property of liquid. That’s
what I understood.
I didn’t know that through the years people had resolved themselves, and
Landau, too,
and people had changed their minds. They were convinced that it was due
to the Bose
transition, whereas at the time that the lecture was given by this guy,
I got the impression
that people believed it was due to general quantum hydrodynamics and
Landau, and I
thought, that’s nuts. It seemed to me perfectly obvious that if a gas
has a transition, a
liquid’s going to have a transition. It’s got to do with the statistics.
So I thought that
Landau’s hydrodynamics was not worth much, and that that was the
problem. And that
the problem was to show that in the liquid there would be a transition
analogous to the
transition in the gas. So I worked out and proved that there would be —
to myself. And
I think others. But it was my physical argument, of a kind which is not
popular and
which is not understood because it takes too much work and is not
rigorous
mathematics and so on. I showed that transition will occur in the liquid
in an analogous
way to that which occurs in the gas, although perhaps in a different
form for the curves
of the transition and the specific heat. Therefore I had understood the
transition in
helium. I didn’t know that in the meantime people were convinced on the
statistics,
partly because they’d even looked at helium 3 and didn’t find the
transition, and so on.
So I was working on a problem ten years — no, not ten years, but seven
years — older,
and in the meantime people’s opinions had changed. So it didn’t look
like much to them,
but I thought it was a big deal. I made some success. So of course I was
in the problem
now. You always want to get more out. The liquid helium had a number of
strange
properties, a flow and everything else, and now that I knew why the
transition occurred,
I ought to be able to see why the various properties were different. At
that time,
someone came into my office and told me that Landau had a theory that
there were
these rotons and that the formula for the energy of a roton was a
constant plus p minus
p zero squared, over 2 mu, where p zero was a constant. And he at first
proposed the
same formula with p zero equal to zero. I thought, when I looked at that
thing, that
that’s crazy, that p is a vector and to subtract from the vector — I
said, “You mean the
magnitude of the p minus p?” Unsymmetrical, lopsided looking, crazy
formula —
Landau is nutty. So I didn’t even pay attention to that. But then I read
a paper by Tisza
and then a paper by Dingle. You know, the only papers that I read. The
paper by Dingle
gave a summary of Landau’s theory, not in terms of the theory, but if
the theory were
right what would be the consequences, to show certain connections
between the
statistics and the model of the excitation. So there were certain things
I didn’t have to
work out. I just had to find the theory of the excitations, what the
energies of the
excitations were in the liquid, and then the rest of it would come out.
I had also read a
49
few little reviews, to know, for example, that the film problem was
probably not serious,
and the climbing on the wall was probably not an especially serious
problem. So I
concentrated on the right end of the problem. I felt this way — that I
don’t have to read
anything about experimental results, or any more than all this, because
I wanted to
demonstrate that Schrodinger’s equation predicts these phenomena. If I’m
going to
demonstrate it, I should only have to know Schrodinger’s equation, hm?
It would be
unfair to read all the experimental results and try to get an
intermediate model. That’s
not what I’m trying to do. What I was trying to do was see how the
principles of
quantum mechanics and the equation of Schrodinger could lead to
phenomena of some
kind like this, and what would they lead to, and predict as much as
possible while
knowing as little as possible. That’s why I paid very little attention
to people who would
come and tell me things about Landau’s spectrum or something like that.
I wasn’t
worrying about it at the moment. So then the problem was to understand
the next stage
of the helium. I gradually realized that the next step was, at low
temperatures only
phonons are involved and not anything else. There were things called
rotons which are
excited later, but I didn’t know what they were. So all I knew that I
had to explain was,
there were no other excitations at low energy than phonons. Rotons were
higher energy.
So I concentrated on that, and I gradually saw the reason for that, by
using the path —
now, changing the method, not by using the path integral method any
more. You use
different methods. Then, the next problem after that was to try to
understand roughly
what energies would the next excitations be above phonons? And I worked
on that quite
a while. I was in Brazil, finally, working on this, and explaining. I
had explained to myself
why the lowest excitation was phonons, and why the next excitation had a
finite energy,
but I couldn’t quite identify the excitation. It might be like
oscillation of an atom in a
cage. It might be like a rotation of a pair of atoms around each other,
or a little ring of
atoms around each other. And it might be like a single atom moving
through the liquid
at a certain speed, and it might be a number of other possibilities. I
didn’t know what it
was like. I was explaining and I was struggling to find it, and I was
getting more and
more clear what it was like. So I was explaining it to Lopez, my
position, and trying to
explain what I thought the state might be like, like a rotating group of
atoms. But that
group may be either here or here or here and the wave functions of such
a thing would
be something like this. I kind of gradually realized that the wave
functions that I would
propose for these different models were all essentially the same.
Mathematically the form
is essentially the same. And then I got a big moment. I can’t remember
exactly how. I
was walking along the street — and zing, I understand: The form has to
look like this.
Well, I was in the street, after talking to Lopez, and I went home to my
hotel, and I put
that form in, and calculated the energy expected to see if I got
anything sensible. And I
got a form for the energy, and I computed the specific heat from it, and
I got the wrong
behavior. Instead of rising more rapidly than you get for the phonons,
it rises less
rapidly. In order to get that formula, however, I had — in one place,
there’s a function
that I didn’t know, which is a little complicated to explain, but it’s
an interesting story. It
has to do with what’s called the structure factor of the liquid for
x-ray scattering, and it
really is a Fourier transform of another function, which is the
probability that if an atom
is at point 0, the origin, there’s another atom at distance R. It’s the
Fourier transform.
50
It’s the thing that determines how intense x-ray scattering will be as a
function of angle
from a liquid. The structure factor, it’s called, in the liquid. Well,
that function came in,
in my calculations, in the formula, and I didn’t know that function. But
I did know, by
thinking about it, that at very low values, it’s a function of momentum,
it’s a linear curve
with a known slope. At very high values of momentum it approaches a
constant. I had
learned from Hans Bethe that if you know the ends of a curve, you just
take the
smoothest thing between and you’re always all right, you know. So I made
an artificial
formula which had those two end properties, which was smooth between. It
just rose
lineally and the asymptotically petered out to a constant. And I had put
that in to
compute the specific heat. And it was wrong. So then I went back over my
logic about
the helium, and this was good exercise. I concluded, after going back
over that for a
week or so, there was absolutely nothing wrong with the logic. It was
absolutely a
consequence of Schrodinger’s equation, damn it, and there’s no escape.
In other words,
it wasn’t that I got the right answer and therefore I was happy. I got
the wrong answer.
So I’m the only one that knows for sure that my argument is right,
because I went
through that thing back and forth with a fine tooth comb, and was jammed
up against
the end. I was just squeezed by the fact that the experiment gave one
answer, and my
formulas, my deduction, must be right. And the only thing I could think
of was — well
let me look at it backwards. The formula must be right. What kind of a
function must I
have in order to get that kind of a specific heat curve? What kind of
structure factor
formula? And I looked to see, that kind of a specific heat curve that to
have a structure
factor which rose first before it came down to the asymptote. The moment
I saw that, I
said, “But of course that’s just what liquids do. If you’re measuring
x-rays as a diffraction
ring, because of the partial structure (almost like a solid) of a
liquid, there’s a maximum,
and that’s the maximum, that’s the diffraction ring of the x-ray
pattern.” It was a terrific
moment, you see. It was interesting. I just tell you because you’re
interested in how
discoveries are made. In a terrific flash of a very few seconds, I saw:
a) this was a
diffraction ring; b) that when the formula was in the reciprocal, this
high peak would
make a notch in the curve of energy of excitations so that the curve of
energy of
excitations would be linear for low momentum, which is phonon, and then
at high
momentum would be in parabola around p naught. I vaguely remembered that
this guy
had told me that Landau had discovered that the formula for the energy
of rotons was a
constant plus p minus p naught squared over 2 mu, which is the behavior
of a parabola
at the bottom. And I realized that that was right, and that I understood
this thing that
Landau was talking about. And I also saw that the two things were on the
same curve.
They’re not just two different kinds of things; they’re all part of the
same curve. All in a
very few seconds. But it was a terrific excitement, because I knew that
I had understood
everything all of a sudden. I found out later that Landau had proposed
that they were
both the same curve, and had made an explanation of why it might be
such, p minus p
naught, but I hadn’t paid any attention or learned anything about it, so
I didn’t know
that. That’s not a question of priorities. I’m just telling you; I try
always to work with the
least knowledge possible, with a little knowledge of what other people
are doing, because
I feel more happy being more individual, if I am not following the line
and getting
confused by what they say. So this was an example, and I felt that
particularly with this
51
example, because it must come from the Schrodinger equations, to be
honest, I should
need to know nothing else. So I was convinced then, that I understood
the fundamental
aspects of the helium, and of course then it was just a question of
cleaning it up,
estimating the energy. It turned out to be somewhat higher than the
actual energy by a
factor I guess of nearly 2. But this didn’t bother me, because with the
accuracy for such
kinds of calculations, that was all right. So qualitatively it was
right, and everything was
ok. It was just a question then of doing a lot of figuring and seeing
the consequences,
cleaning up and polishing this thing again. The same business — you’re
over the top,
you know. You work out deductions and you check various things, and
everything works
all right. You get the formula of Dingle all over again by a different
way, and you check a
number of items. Then you see if maybe something is due to something
else. You see
certain things don’t fit quite right, like right near the transition,
and you struggle to figure
that out but you can’t, and so on. About that time I went to the meeting
in Japan.
Weiner:
This Brazilian interlude here was another trip to Brazil?
Feynman:
Yeah.
Weiner:
Was that for a summer?
Feynman:
Yeah, that was in the summer. I was with my wife then. My second wife.
Weiner:
I see. And the paper itself was published — well, there were a series of
papers —
Feynman:
That’s right, a series of papers.
Weiner:
So the work that you describe culminated in a series, four different
papers —
Feynman:
52
No, three.
Weiner:
Three, and one of them, that I thought was the fourth, appears to be the
report at the
Tokyo Conference.
Feynman:
No, that’s just a report of something that’s covered by the other
papers.
Weiner:
Yeah, that’s what I meant.
Feynman:
No. In fact, I had written a paper understanding why the lowest energy
excitation is the
phonons, and there’s no other excitation at low energies. I had written
a paper explaining
that, which I had sent in. But by the time it came back, you know, for
printing, I added
in the proof the statement, “I now understand what the state is, what
the function is of
the other excitations, and I will tell about that in the next paper.”
Then I went to Japan. I
was at the Japan meeting, and there was some discussion of helium. There
was a solid
state group there, a group of people talking about it, Onsager,
Feurlich, and others, and
somebody said something about liquid helium. So I got up to remark that
I have another
view that I think is right, and that unfortunately, however, I wasn’t
able to get the
transition exactly right. This is one feature that I don’t understand
very well, just exactly
how you get the transition. I still don’t, and nobody else does, but
that’s incidental. It’s a
nice puzzle that I couldn’t solve. I tried to explain, I know all about
it except — you
know? I must explain something — the day before, I had sat next to
Onsager at dinner.
He’s a great man in statistical mechanics. I have great respect for him,
very brilliant man.
He sat by me and said, “I understand you think you have liquid helium
understood?” I
said, “Yes, I do.” He said, “Oh, ho…” So then when I made this remark,
about not
fitting, Professor Onsager got up and said, “Professor Feynman is new to
the problems
of statistical mechanics and liquid helium, and I think it is up to us
to tell him something
that he doesn’t seem to know.” Boy, am I really going to get it! He
says, “The fact that
he doesn’t get the transition exactly right is of no importance and
significance at this
time, because no one has ever gotten the transition correct for any
transition by
theoretical method yet. And he shouldn’t criticize himself so severely
because he doesn’t
get the transition.” It was just opposite to what I thought he was going
to say.
Weiner:
53
That’s very nice. What else was discussed at that meeting? Of course
that was just one of
the many topics.
Feynman:
Yeah. They were discussing questions like, is there a transition in the
solid — in a gas of
rigid atoms? And so on. You can look up the Proceedings.
Weiner:
The Proceedings are published. But this wasn’t on solid state, this
particular —
Feynman:
Transitions, statistical mechanics — there were all kinds of stuff. This
is theoretical
physics. And I was going crazy, because they, as usual, had scheduled
things that I was
interested in from two slides, like high energy physics was going on at
the same time as
—
Weiner:
On meeting (I don’t have it with me) you’re scheduled on a program over
here on
something, and then they’re talking about electrodynamics, and you’re
not on that
program.
Feynman:
Yeah, but then I was stuck. I could only go to one or the other, and I
went to the
helium. I went to the helium one, you see.
Weiner:
I see, because that was your current work.
Feynman:
Right.
Weiner:
Did you meet Tomonaga on that trip?
Feynman:
54
Undoubtedly, yes. I had met Tomonaga I believe before.
Weiner:
Oh, when was that?
Feynman:
In fact, even earlier, I think, when I was at Princeton. I believe I met
Tomonaga
somewhere along the line. What I was doing in Princeton, I don’t know,
whether it was
because I was going to school there, I don’t know. I was too young. No,
somewhere I
was visiting Princeton — I don’t know when I visited Princeton, but I
remember
walking with Tomonaga at Princeton. I don’t know how.
Weiner:
You discussed you work — you discussed your reaction to his work and so
forth —
Feynman:
Well, I had met Tomonaga and had the pleasure of talking to him, and of
course I met
him in Japan. I met Yukawa. I also met Tomonaga and others, and
discussed many
things with many people. I liked Japan very much and the Japanese
scientists and
everything else. Somebody made a toast that they hoped we can treat the
Japanese the
same again, or something, or they said we hope to someday return and so
on. Nobody
paid much attention to me, but I vowed that they would see me, I would
return to Japan
because I cannot stay away. And I did. I returned for several months,
three months.
Weiner:
When, several years later?
Feynman:
Not very long later. About two years later. I’ve been there three times
now, if I’m not
mistaken.
Weiner:
When you went, did you lecture at particular institutions there?
Feynman:
55
Which time?
Weiner:
Later — I mean, after the 1953 conference?
Feynman:
Yes.
Weiner:
Here, in 1955, you spent three months in Japan.
Feynman:
OK, ‘55.
Weiner:
And you gave certain lectures, and visited Kyoto universities, conferred
with Yukawa —
Feynman:
Yeah. Incidentally, by going to Japan the first time for the meeting, it
was very amusing.
You see, we’d had a war and so on, and Japan was trying to come back —
right?
Weiner:
Yes, do you remember what part of ‘53 that was? Just curious.
Feynman:
No. Well, no, I don’t. It must have been in August and so on. So they
had this idea for
an international conference on theoretical physics. Everybody went, and
it was good for
Japan. It gave a good many people there, physicists there, a lift, you
know. They were
recognized as being part of the world again in spite of everything. So
that was an
important thing. However, Johnny Wheeler sent to each, I presume — at
least he sent to
me — a letter saying that we were going to Japan, and it would be a good
idea to know
the language. It was a nice thing to do. And he sent me and I think
everybody, because
that’s the way he is, a small booklet, the Army booklet, for very simple
phrases in
Japanese. So I was very excited to go to Japan. I’d heard a lot about
Japan. I knew
something of the cultural aspects and this and that. So what I did was,
I studied this
56
book very hard and tried to learn the phrases. I found a Japanese woman,
some friend of
some friend who was there, who helped me with some of the phrases. I
went to her
house for dinner and I asked her a few, like how you say “Thank you.”
And she
corrected the pronunciation, and we got started a little bit that way.
Then I took
chopsticks and I practiced lifting pieces of paper and so on and so on,
with the
chopsticks, so I could eat when I was there. Then when I got there, I
stayed in a
Japanese hotel. It was with great difficulty that I got into the
Japanese hotel. They didn’t
want me to do that, because they didn’t think I would be comfortable. I
have very
amusing stories about that, but that’s outside the — Well, it’s not
entirely outside. They
put me in a beautiful Japanese inn.
Weiner:
In Tokyo?
Feynman:
Yes, and the first time I went to the bathroom — not the men’s room but
the bathroom,
to wash in the morning, to take a bath — I didn’t realize that the maid
was going to
come and tell me when I could. I said I wanted to take a bath. She said,
“All right.” So
she went out and didn’t come back. So I got mixed up, and so I went to
the bathroom
and started to wash up. Actually what I should have done was wait for
her to scrub me
there, because she’d wait till it was empty, see, and they had it all
figured out. But I went
on washing. While I’m washing, I hear noises — a guy in the bathtub,
with the door —
like a shower door — closed. You know, it was a big Japanese bathtub.
And he comes
out, all nude and so on. It was Professor Yukawa. I hadn’t seen him
since I’d come to
Japan. But imagine all the luck in the whole world, the only Japanese
guy I knew, for
crying out loud, was the guy in the bathroom. He was pleased I was in.
He told me it was
quite wrong of me to come in. He explained to me that that wasn’t right,
and that I
should wait for the maid, and he laughed and so on. Then we talked. I
went to his room,
and I met lots of Japanese men, and we sat on the floor wearing gowns.
It was very, very
interesting altogether, very pleasant, very nice.
Weiner:
You found Yukawa easy to talk to.
Feynman:
Oh, yes. I had known Yukawa, I think, before — I’m not sure, I forget —
but I’d always
found him an interesting nice man to talk to, very pleasant. He took me
to shows with
his wife and all kinds of things.
57
Weiner:
You know, one time he wrote a little article in Japanese which was
translated, sort of an
autobiography, very brief, giving an account of his family and
background and how he
did his work.
Feynman:
Oh, the other thing I wanted to say about the trip is, this was early in
the business of the
government supporting science. So I was offered to get my fare paid to
Japan by
something, MATS or BLATS or SPLATS; by the Army. And I said, no, I’ll
pay my own
way. I just say this; I don’t want to make a big public deal out of it,
I’m just telling you,
because I felt at that time that the Army should not be interested in
science. If it’s only
interested in it for the use of making something, bombs and so on, the
theoretical
physics we were talking about is not that. Their interest is something
like industry’s
interest, which is that they want to get the scientist happy so that the
scientist will be
ready in case —. You feel like a whole, see? Waiting for the customer.
So I didn’t like the
idea, and I went on my own money — which was crazy, but I did that — to
that
meeting. I was probably the only guy who paid his own way. It turned out
that being able
to speak Japanese of course helped, a little bit, a little tiny bit,
when I was in this
Japanese inn and so on. I had lots of fun. Oh, here’s a story; this is
amusing. When we
got to Kyoto—by this time I had talked Pais into this idea of staying at
a Japanese Inn
instead of a Western style hotel — there was a hotel which had both
kinds of rooms, the
Miopo Hotel. So we asked for the Japanese-style room, the two of us — we
would share
it. So we shared a Japanese-style room. There are various stories about
that, but one
story which has to do with work and so on is the following. While I was
in the room, I
got a telephone call. “This is Time, the correspondent from Time in
Tokyo.” He wanted
to talk to me about my work, and what I was doing, and do I have a copy
of my work,
that he could see, of any kind? “Well, it’s rather technical,” and so
on. We talked quite a
long time about the copy of the work and what it was because I had done
this helium
stuff, see. And when we got all finished, he said, “Will you send it to
such and such
address? We need it very quick because we’re going to write an article,”
and so on. I said,
“Yes.” And he said, “Well, thank you, Mr. Pais.” And it was most
amusing. He thought
he was talking to Pais, see.
Weiner:
It didn’t make any difference what you were saying to him.
Feynman:
No, it did. I didn’t say anything about the helium. I said I would send
him the paper. No,
we didn’t discuss it. I’d send him the paper. And when did I do the
work? You know. I
did it last year while I was in Brazil. It was all right, it was all
consistent. “Thank you, Mr.
58
Pais.” I said, “Excuse me, you made a mistake — it’s not Mr. Pais. Then
when Pais came
in, I told him, “Hey, Time —” (I was all excited, because I’d never had
anything like that
happen before, see). “Hey, a guy from Time Magazine called, wants you to
call him
back!” “Aw, the hell with him,” he says. “Publicity is a whore.” There’s
the difference,
you see. I was anxious for it, and he — I learned he’s right. He’s
right, and I shouldn’t
have been anxious, but it was quite a thing — one of those amusing
shocks.
Weiner:
After that, when you came back, you started receiving some recognition,
which I gather
is the first real public very high level recognition, with the Einstein
Award. Is that right?
Is that the first?
Feynman:
Yes. Well, I don’t know. God damn, I don’t know.
Weiner:
Well, I’m saying, the only record I have —
Feynman:
Yeah, but those things don’t mean anything to me. I mean, I have
received recognition
when, for instance, Ashkin used my stuff. And then as I see more and
more people using
the stuff, and I see in the Physics Review these idiot diagrams I cooked
up, that’s all
there was to it.
Weiner:
Yes, well that’s different. You’re differentiating between the receipt
of a prize and —
Feynman:
No, I’m not differentiating. You’re differentiating.
Weiner:
What I’m asking you is —
Feynman:
What you said is the first recognition. I said, no, it’s not the first
recognition. No, I
59
consider the other as recognition, and the other is consequence. If Time
were interested
in writing it up, that’s because somebody thought it was important. You
know. For
example, my backwards-moving electrons appeared in one of the science
fiction
magazines, in a science article. You know, stuff like that. There were
all kinds of little
crazy stuff, see, gradually increasing. Then, one day I got a telephone
call — this is
interesting — I got a telephone call at home, and the operator said,
“Mr. Lewis Strauss
wants to talk to you.” The name sounded familiar. This shows you how
dumb I was. I
turned to my wife -– “Hey, some guy named Lewis Strauss from Washington
wants to
talk to me.” She says, “That’s the head of the Atomic Energy
Commission.” I said, “Oh,
boy, I guess he wants me to do something.” So he told me his name and
said that this
was what he wanted to talk to me about — nothing to do with the work of
the AEC or
anything. And then he started in and he described the existence of this
prize, that every
so many years, which I forget, there’s a prize given called the Einstein
Award, in honor
of his parents, and it amounts to so much money, and so on. While we’re
talking I am
completely convinced that I know what he’s going to say, which is he
wants me to act as
a judge, to help judge who should win the prize — and the reason is, it
happened to me
more than once. See, by this time, because of this Time Magazine and a
number of other
things, I’m always asked to be a judge or something, you see. So I was
sure what he was
going to say. Therefore it was a surprise to me, in spite of all the
introduction which he
was trying to make so I’d catch on. It was a complete surprise to me
when he said, “I
wanted to tell you that you won the prize.” “Won?” I said, “hot dog!”
You see? So he
says, “It’s interesting to hear a serious scientist saying something
like, hot dog.” I said,
“Listen, you call up any serious scientist and tell him he won $15,000,
he’ll say hot dog.”
And so on. So I had to go and collect that money, at some later time.
Weiner:
That was in March, 1954.
Feynman:
Yes. My experiences talking to Mr. Strauss concerned Mr. Oppenheimer,
because that
was the time when the Oppenheimer case had just been finished, and the
stuff had been
just published. Here’s a story, but you may not be interested in that.
Weiner:
Why not?
Feynman:
Because it’s nothing to do with my work, and if we start going into all
these things we’ll
go on forever — I mean, I don’t mind, but it’s up to you. I tell you
that there exists a
conversation between me and Mr. Strauss about Mr. Oppenheimer and the
published
60
documents of the Atomic Energy Commission. I had read the documents in
the day or
two (after they were published), because my cousin is a reporter for the
Associated Press,
and I had been visiting my sister when I came east to get the prize. I
stayed with her a
couple of days first. My cousin came over and had this transcript that
had just come out,
and I read the whole thing. So I was well prepared (and knew everything
that was in it)
to talk to Mr. Strauss when he met me. But anyhow, that is the prize.
Oh, when I
received the prize — I think these things were very personal, but I’m
saying them to you
anyhow. I don’t know what to do. See, there’s lots of bragging in here,
and there’s lots of
things in here, and you understand that this is the situation. So I keep
right on going, but
I remind you, this is another sensitive point. When I received the
prize, I knew what had
happened to Oppenheimer, and that Strauss had something to do with it,
and I didn’t
like it. And I didn’t like Strauss. Ok? And I thought: I’m going to fix
him. I mean, I was
not nice. I don’t want to take it from him. The hell with it. And I
thought: Maybe I won’t
take the prize. All right? And I worried about it, because in a certain
sense I felt that was
unfair. The guy is offering the money — you know, he’s trying to do
something nice —
and it isn’t that he just did it because of this, because he’s done it
before. There were
previous Einstein Awards, as far as I know, or something. And therefore,
it wasn’t just
for this reason. I was kind of confused, and I talked to Professor Rabi,
who was visiting
Caltech about it. Rabi said, “You should never turn a man’s generosity
as a sword against
him. Any virtue that a man has, even if he has many vices, should not be
used as a tool
against him.” That’s the way he put it. You shouldn’t use a man’s virtue
as a weakness, to
take advantage. I saw that that’s what I would be doing if I refused him
and made
publicity about “I won’t accept this because he’s such a stinker.” That
would be a terrible
thing to do. So I took the $15,000.
Weiner:
That’s very interesting about Rabi. That’s the second time he’s played a
role as a senior
advisor to you. Do you have any sort of special relationship with him?
Feynman:
No, it’s just the way he acts, behaves, walks around and so on. He likes
to feel himself as
— you know what I mean? — an elder statesman or advisor. And so, for
example — I
don’t know whether I told this one — when I was at Los Alamos, once he
came by. We
were talking about something, and he said to me, “You know,” in this
serious voice,
“contemplate the neutron.” He says, “Contemplate the neutron.” So that
night I was
baby-sitting for the Bethes or something, and had nothing to do. I was
sitting in the
room, and I said, “Well, I’ll contemplate the neutron.” And I began to
think all about
neutrons, and of course I had to think about everything. I mean from
neutrons you get
into protons, then pi mesons — you can’t think about the neutron all by
itself. I kind of
understood what he meant. It doesn’t make any difference where you
start. You start
with these things and you get involved in all the problems. I started
thinking about all
the problems. But I remember — he has an influence on me, yes. If he
says to me,
61
“Contemplate the neutron,” I contemplate the neutron. You know what I
mean? Yeah,
he’s a sort of older advisor, like a great father of the young scientist
business. You know,
I like him very much. Yes, we have been good friends.
Weiner:
In 1954 you were also elected to the National Academy of Sciences.
Feynman:
Yeah, that’s another one of those things. Now, between us, again, these
things bothered
the hell out of me, all these things. I had trouble with the National
Academy of Sciences.
Let me just put this down for the record, because I had never heard of
the National
Academy of Sciences. Never! I didn’t know what it was.
Weiner:
And you didn’t know that some of these men you admired so much were
members?
Feynman:
No. I’d never heard of the National Academy of Sciences. I received this
thing, and I
didn’t know what it was. Somebody told me Epstein would know, because he
was the
only guy around at the time. Bacher was out or something. I said, “I
don’t want to join it,
Professor, because as far as I know, they don’t do a damned thing.” He
said, “But they
have this National Academy of Sciences thing that they publish. They
have meetings.” I
said, “Yeah, but I don’t read the National Academy whatever it is.” I
don’t even
remember what the name of the publication is now. It’s a publication,
but the articles in
physics are not impressive there. I never had to refer to it. Never knew
it was there, and
I never knew anything that they did. “Well, it’s an honorary society.” I
had already made,
when I was a kid in high school, a principle, see. Like a nut, like
children do, you make
ideal principles, and then later you make yourself miserable in life by
having to change
the principle. See, I had become a member of what was called the Arista,
which was an
honorary thing for the students, and the only thing we did in the Arista
was to select
other students who might become members of this thing. So it was a
mutual patting on
the back society, and I looked at what we were doing, and I thought,
“That’s not right.
All we do, we get into this thing, and we give the honor to the next
guy, the great honor.
What a position to be in! Kingpin Joe, he’s going to permit somebody
else to have this
marvelous honor that is so wonderful to have attained,” you see. So I
made my decision,
not to be a member of an honorary society, if it’s an honorary society
only. If this
damned thing did anything, it would be all right. So I made my objection
to Epstein,
“It’s only an honorary society and they spend their time electing other
guys. I don’t like
the idea — I don’t think I’ll — I mean I don’t want it because I didn’t
know anything
about it.” I didn’t want it. So he said that this honor is supposed to
be pretty important,
62
that I had many friends in the organization who had probably worked very
hard to get
me elected into the organization, and I would disappoint my friends, and
so on and so
on, if I said no; it would make a big noise and was not necessary. So I
said, ok, and I
quietly accepted it. But I didn’t pay any dues, and I told them not to
send the journal,
and I tried to forget it. I went to the first meeting. Oh, wait — I did
give them a chance,
I always do. I went to the first meeting. It was as I’d proposed. It was
a lot of talk about
getting members. They were discussing, “We have to stick together in the
physics group,
because we have only so and so many votes, and the chemists have so and
so many
votes. We have to kind of agree on it among ourselves, on which
physicists we’re going
to vote for, because if we don’t we’re not going to have votes to
counter the number of
votes for the chemists,” and so on and so on and so on. This is, to me,
for the birds. I’ll
vote for the chemist, maybe he’s better. You know? It’s for the birds. I
couldn’t stand it.
Then the meeting itself, the scientific meeting itself, was a shock to
me, because many
men who have gotten in may be old by this time or something, but the
caliber of the
thing was extremely variable. There were some very good talks. There was
a great talk by
the man in weather, who was very interesting. But then there was a talk
by some guy
who got up and told about experiments which were supposed to be the
effect of stress
on rats, on their desire to survive or something — on rats. What he had
done was — I
mean this is what he’d done — he described it in terms of a cylindrical
glass tube, but it
was a bottle. He took a jar and he put rats in the jar in water, and he
screwed the lid on
so that they couldn’t quite come up high enough when they were swimming
to get a
good breath, and they were drowning — hm? And he watched how long it
took them to
drown, under some kind of circumstance. Now, if that ain’t a kid
fiddling around! There
was nothing scientifically measured, in the sense that there was some
sense to it, except
that the rats got very nervous, you see, and they swam faster, or
something. It was the
most cruel, unnecessary, stupid thing. It was very much — except it
wasn’t human
beings — like the stupid kind of Nazi experiments in which they don’t
exactly know
what they’re doing; they’re just experimenting. Huh? It was just like a
kid would
experiment, God damn it, in drowning rats. It had no real scientific
virtue of any kind. I
was all ready to jump up and complain about this, but I expected
somebody else to do it,
to say, “This is scientifically very poor; this hasn’t any sense to it.”
I kind of was a little
bit reluctant to make a big stink as a new member, so I didn’t say
anything — which I
regret, because nobody else said anything. And I feel, if it’s a
scientific organization, aside
from the cruelty to the things, scientifically it was —. Even with
machines it wouldn’t
make any difference. Scientifically, nothing was measured. It was
misinterpreted activity.
It was perfectly clear that the thing got frightened. I mean, it was
just crazy, see. It was so
poor. And I didn’t criticize it, because I expected somebody else to,
because I thought it
was obvious. But that was a mistake. I went to another big talk by some
man who was in
Mexico, a great doctor who had been working with Norbert Wiener down
there on some
business. He had done something with the heart, in some heart institute,
and now he was
doing something with nerves. And he had found some kind of a thing which
goes
something like this. In the nerve response to a pulse, there’s a place
where the third
derivative of the curve is discontinuous. He measured the thing, and it
varies with this
and that, and so on. The third derivative of a curve is one hell of a
thing to get at.
63
Anyway, they found that when they wanted to fit these curves, the curve
of the response,
with empirical formulae — you know, exponentials summed up together —
that they
couldn’t get one set of exponentials to fit the whole curve. So they had
to do it in two
sections. Then the third derivative didn’t match. But this is evidently
an artifact, and
evidently Wiener doesn’t appreciate what’s involved in physical curves;
i.e., that you can’t
pick the formula, and that the second derivative or the third
derivative, whichever was
discontinuous, when it was physically really discontinuous, required
very careful
measurement of the curve. It’s extremely hard even to get the slope off
a curve well, and
then to get the slope of the slope — you could make errors. For example,
I already knew
that if you took a curve and fitted it with a French curve, even if you
made a very big
scale and very very carefully, and then took differences, slopes, and
kept going to the
second derivative, you see tremendous irregularities exactly at the
places where you
change the curves. It’s impossible to beat that. So after the thing, I
went up to the man
and I asked him what was the way in which he got the curves. I mean, you
see the curves
on the scope, but how do you get them on the paper and how do you
compare them to
the formulae? So he said, “Do you mean you want me to tell you how we
take a
photograph, and how we test the photograph, and all this?” I said, “Yes,
I do, to
understand the cause.” I said, “It’s very hard to get the second
derivative out, you see.”
He said, “I was working with Professor Norbert Wiener.” I said, “I still
want to know
how you did it.” “I haven’t got time to talk to you!” So I say, I came
to the conclusion
that the National Academy of Science is not enough critical of its own
science, and is an
honorary society, and I don’t want to have anything to do with it, hm?
Ok. So I never
did anything for it. I don’t want to have anything to do with it, and
every time there’s an
election, I never vote. And I get all kinds of pleading letters from my
colleagues that we
need every vote and all this stuff. I won’t have anything to do with it.
And I wrote once
to Adrian Bronk, the president, at the time —
Weiner:
Detlev Bronk?
Feynman:
Detlev Bronk, excuse me. Adrian and Bronk worked together on neural
things. So I
wrote once to Detlev Bronk and told him, “Is there any way I can get out
of this society
quietly? I don’t want to be associated with it, but I don’t want to make
any objection. I
don’t want to make a big public something. I just want it to be quietly
forgotten that I’m
a member of this thing. Is there any way to do it?” I said, of course,
“You understand
that if you don’t want me to do it, if it can’t be done, that I won’t do
it, but you’ll have
one reluctant member, one unhappy member of your organization.” So he
wrote back:
“You’ll have to be an unhappy member. I would rather you would stay.”
What I’m going
to do now that we have another president is some time write another
letter and try again.
I don’t want to be a member of that organization. It’s scientifically
poor, and it’s
honorary, and I don’t like the combination. I’ll tell you more that I
don’t like — the
64
history of it. It was invented by, I believe, Lincoln, in the Civil War,
to help scientifically,
to give advice, to assist the Union in winning the Civil War. It had
therefore a real
purpose, hm? Ok. By the time the next war came along — I don’t know
which; say the
First World War — it’s ineffective, so they can’t use it. Instead of
that, they appoint
another thing whose name I don’t — oh, the National Research Council,
hm? — in
order to give advice to help win the First World War. We have these two
things now —
hm? Ok? And they don’t buy, it doesn’t buy. It has its building in
Washington. It’s paid
for by the taxpayers. It doesn’t buy, because it can’t do its job, and
they knew all this.
Second World War comes around — neither of the two organizations works
now. They
need another thing — OSRD, or something like that, hm? And they put that
on top of
the thing. I don’t remember all how it goes, but this stuff just doesn’t
make sense. If it
doesn’t work, forget it. And if it works, use it. But not just pile one
on top of the other,
because it’ll just get like barnacles. So they have now four or five
organizations. They all
exist, from back in history. Well, I don’t like it. So altogether, you
can take the National
Academy of Sciences and — I don’t care what happens to it.
Weiner:
Someday I’ll remember to send you some documents that talk about the
origins of the
Academy and the resignations that occurred at the time because of
someone’s
disagreement with the way the members were selected, which has nothing
to do with
your feelings in your case, but there is a precedent…
Feynman:
Well, I don’t object to any specific way that any specific member was
selected. I’m just
saying, I don’t object, and I’m not jealous of somebody getting in or
not getting in. I
don’t know who’s in and who’s not. I don’t know who’s a member and who’s
not a
member. I don’t give a God damn.
Weiner:
Well, that’s the National Academy, and that was ‘54. That takes care of
that.
Feynman:
Yes, but you see, I told you, every item is going to involve a story.
Weiner:
But this is quite a revealing story.
Feynman:
65
That’s a revealing story, so I shouldn’t hide it. Ok.
Weiner:
Yes, because that’s fascinating. 1954 — I’m skipping around —
Feynman:
I wish I could get rid of it. I’m going to try again. There must be a
way to quietly
disappear from that organization. What I did is, I wrote to Who’s Who
and told them
not to include that sentence in there, but they still do. I can’t get
out of it. You see, you
touched this weak point. I shouldn’t have accepted it.
Weiner:
In ‘54, you went to the physics conference in Rochester. I think those
conferences were
pretty good.
Feynman:
Yeah.
Weiner:
I know that Bethe and Teller and Oppenheimer were there. Is this a
special conference
of significance in your mind?
Feynman:
Well, you give them by dates, and I can’t —
Weiner:
Things were beginning to happen, that’s why.
Feynman:
Yes, things were happening at all these conferences, and all these
conferences were
important.
Weiner:
In this period of time, ‘54, ‘55 for example, they discovered the
anti-proton, and the next
66
year the fall of parity.
Feynman:
Yes, we always had this stuff going on. We had these meetings, and these
meetings were
important, but I can’t remember any — the meetings were important. They
tell you what
the problem is, what the situation is, and I had many discussions and
arguments in the
meetings, of various kinds. Yes -– oh — can I tell you about the
relationship to the
press? Would you be interested in my relationship to the press?
Weiner:
Yes.
Feynman:
Right after the war, since I was trying to explain about the atomic bomb
(and I usually
can explain it in a relatively elementary way), and since I had tried to
tell Lawrence of the
New York Times when he had visited Los Alamos how the thing worked, he
afterwards
asked me questions at these Rochester meetings. I would try to explain
as best I could
what Oppenheimer meant by his statement that we now understand
everything. I would
tell him what he meant, and I would tell him I don’t agree with it, and
so on. You
gradually gather around you an enormous number of reporters from
different
organizations, and they would invite me to dinner after the meetings,
say, and I would try
to explain things and answer all their questions. I tried to explain. I
made a real effort
because it seemed to me that my colleagues were not paying any
attention, and they
shouldn’t criticize the crap which was coming out unless they made an
effort to try to
explain things to these people. So I made an effort. And the effort
wasn’t too useful. It
didn’t come out too good. Some guys were very good, some were only fair,
and some
were obviously not good. And so on. But I kept doing this all the time.
One time, at one
of the meetings, they asked me if I would do it again, as usual, and I
said, “Listen. Every
meeting I do this. This time, no. I don’t want to do it.” I was tired.
“You can get
somebody else.” They said, “Well, we’re having a conference of all the
reporters” — 20
of them — “in the news room or something, and we’d like an expert to
answer questions
on something.” I said, “No. Get other guys to answer the questions.” At
that meeting,
Teller had come. That was about the time of Oppenheimer’s trouble, and
people
thinking that Teller and Oppenheimer were opposite to each other, and so
on. And
Teller had some theory of the nucleus in which he claimed that the
forces between
nuclear particles were highly velocity dependent, because of the
difference in force. It
was a little balance: there was a repulsive force from scalar mesons and
an attractive
force from vector mesons, and they were almost exactly the same, and
only the velocity
dependence was different. Instinctively I know that such things don’t
work. I mean, it’s
very rare, unless by accident. But it’s hard. You can’t expect an
accident really to explain
it. It’s not fair. I mean, it’s instinct. So I didn’t think it was
right, and I also had other
67
reasons not to think it was right, in that I believed that if I had
scalar forces to a high
enough, to arbitrary power, you could show that you’d get infinite
numbers of pairs. He
also thought that his theory was convergent, that everything was going
to be all right,
and it would explain the facts. And I objected, for two reasons: one,
that it was an
accident that he was invoking, and two, this other thing. I made an
objection. So after I
did this, they asked me again, would I please come up and answer
questions. You know,
they were very interested in Teller’s stuff and so on. So I went up
there, somewhat
reluctantly, and they started asking questions. And it was very amusing.
For me it was a
surprise. I didn’t know how to handle it because I didn’t expect it.
They started to ask
me questions about this thing, what it means, and what do I think of
Teller’s theory. And
I explained as best I could, in simple language, elementary language,
what I thought was
the matter with Teller’s theory. And they said, “Is it possible that you
don’t think Teller’s
theory is right because you don’t like Professor Teller?” I said, “No,
it is not possible.”
“Well, do you like Professor Teller?” I said, “It’s irrelevant. You
know, like this — I was
sort of surprised. And because I was surprised, I didn’t know how to
handle myself on
these things, and I got more and more angry. It’s wrong, dopey — but I
got angry. And
they kept badgering me, like it was a political meeting and they were
trying to badger a
guy to admit something. And they’d go, “Brrrrpp” from one side,
“Brrrppp” from the
other side. “Well, perhaps you don’t have this feeling, but don’t you
think that the reason
that nobody pays much attention to the professor is because —” “No,” I
said. “I believe
that at that meeting, they were all thinking almost completely
scientifically about the
value of the thing.” “But you criticized —” “Yes,” I said, “Because I
criticized
scientifically,” and so on. “Why,” I said, “can you counter my
arguments?” You know
what I mean. And so on — and it got worse and worse. I got more and more
upset. I
was sort of yelling, you know. And I came out of that place shaking. So
that was rather
interesting, relations with the press.
Weiner:
What have you done with the press since?
Feynman:
I don’t care for the press too well, for several reasons, but that’s
just one added on. Of
course, that doesn’t make all the difference. I have tried to explain
things, but it’s almost
hopeless, to a large fraction of the press. There are certain particular
members that I still
will try to explain things to. For example, there was a man from Fortune
Magazine, Mr.
Frank Bellow, who now works for the Scientific American.
Weiner:
Francis Bellow.
68
Feynman:
Francis Bellow, yeah. Now, he’s a guy who, if you take patience and
explain it to him,
makes it come out the other end better than you explained it to him.
That’s great!
Because I explained to him the principles of quantum mechanics, and he
wrote an article
in Fortune, which may be incomprehensible to the reader — that doesn’t
make any
difference — but it was better than my explanation. It was better than I
could have
written, whereas usually what comes out is such a garbled thing that,
although it’s now
comprehensible, it’s meaningless.
Weiner:
Yes. He has a little book, I think —
Feynman:
For instance, that’s just one example, another guy from the Herald
Tribune —
Weiner:
Earl Ubell?
Feynman:
Yeah, right. He’s good.
Weiner:
There’s no longer any Herald Tribune, though.
Feynman:
Yeah, but there are good ones. You see, my reaction is not just to the
press in general. I
gradually began to see that there were good guys who were useful to try
to explain to,
and there were useless ones. For example, the guy from the local
newspaper, Star News
— he came and bothered Pelham and I, and asked a lot of questions; we
explained a lot
of things. He gets all through and tells that we’re trying to attain
absolute zero and all
this kind of stuff. He just made it up. He made up quotations —
“Professor Pelham
said,” –- quote — Then he says something that’s so ridiculous that
Pelham seems like
some kind of a jackass — which he isn’t. The quotation was ridiculous -–
“I am going to
attain absolute zero within the next two years.” Well, Pelham could not
possibly have
said such a thing! It’s meaningless — it doesn’t mean anything to attain
absolute zero. So
he was livid mad, Pelham. But that kind of stuff happens, and it’s kind
of useless.
69
Weiner:
In ‘54 it seems to me there’s a whole bunch of things — for example, on
liquid helium,
and we talked about that —
Feynman:
Right. But there was one piece of liquid helium in addition that I have
to do yet, besides
the ones I mentioned.
Weiner:
When was that?
Feynman:
Well, I just kept going. I mean, I had to understand. After I got
finished, I realized that
the critical velocity which my theory gave was much higher than the real
critical velocity,
and that the perfect flow of superfluid must break down in some manner.
But I could
only predict that it would be vortex — free circulation. I didn’t know
how it worked
when it was circulating, when it had rotation in it. And so I used to
think about it, when
I was lying awake at night, and I saw how it had rotation. I described
finally the vortex
lines. I don’t know that it’s worthwhile saying how I thought the thing
out, but maybe it
is.
Weiner:
Yeah, I think so.
Feynman:
Ok. The problem was to get a situation where the helium had rotational
flow. That
means, if you go around a line, in the fluid, and take the average
velocity in the direction
of the line as you go around, the average is not zero; there’s a
circulation. So I figured
and I worried, how could it circulate? My theory says it didn’t. My
equations were only
for states that didn’t circulate. I knew there must be states that did.
The question is, what
are they like and what is their energy, and so on. How are they formed
and all because
that had to do with the critical velocity? So, in order to force that
the liquid would have
circulation, I was lying in bed thinking in my mind, visualizing the
following situation,
which I kind of forced. I had the liquid on one side of an impenetrable
membrane,
infinitely thin, made of some material that doesn’t exist, because it
has to be made of
atoms. All right, you can think it anyway. On one side, the liquid is
standing still. On the
other side, the liquid is moving. But there’s this layer in between.
Now, I know the
70
states, the wave function of both halves, of course, because I knew what
to do. And each
part of the liquid is OK, see. One is just drifting; the other’s
standing still. So I knew the
wave function system. Now, I pull out the sheet between them, and I ask:
What is the
character of the state now going to be like — in which I had the wave
function one way
above, and the other way below. How are they going to fit together? What
are the
conditions? I was talking about how I got the idea about what are now
called vortex
lines. I was lying in bed, trying to figure out what would be
circulational flow, and I
forced myself to have circulational flow by imagining this liquid
flowing above a plate at
a uniform velocity V, and below the plate not moving, and I knew the
wave functions of
each. The one at the top differed in the way that if you move an atom a
distance X, the
phase of a wave function would change by E to the I over H time MV times
X. By a
certain phase proportional to X, and the V measured this, the speed
measured the phase,
rate in which the phase changed with X. That was the difference. First I
thought, when I
pull out the sheet the two liquids, the two sections being in really
different stages and
different kinds of motion, may behave like two independent liquids, and
that there’s just
like a surface tension between the two liquids, which would have energy
proportional to
the surface area between two regions. But (this is the way the mind
works) I realized
right away that that isn’t the case, because if the velocity of the
upper one would grow
smaller and smaller and smaller, certainly when the velocity of the
upper one was zero,
they would not be that energy. That’s a very considerable energy, as a
matter of fact, that
surface energy. And certainly, when the velocity of the upper section is
zero, it’s not
needed. They could just mesh together. But if it were infinitesimal, is
it suddenly going to
be at infinite energy? And I didn’t think that was intuitively likely.
So I tried to think a
little more how maybe they could be together. Now, I realized then that
the phase which
is varying across the top is varying sinusoidally and that, say at X
equals zero, the phase
at the top and the bottom is the same. Say, at X equals zero. So an atom
could move
from the top surface to the bottom surface without changing anything in
the wave
function. Then if I went 2 pi, a certain distance corresponding to 2 pi
further on, again
the phase was zero which would mean that the bottom wave function and
the top wave
function were the same at that point, that atoms could move up and down
freely. There
would be no surface tension energy between the two liquids, at little
patches, every so
often. So now I had the view that there would be sort of glue, I mean a
continuity of
fluid, and then a little strip where there would be this surface
tension, when they couldn’t
mix, when the atoms couldn’t go from above to below — then a glued strip
and then
another, a glued area, short area, and then another — and so on. Then I
began to think:
How long is the strip of the surface tension, and how long is the glued
area? How wide?
I mean, how much difference in phase can I tolerate? You say you can’t
tolerate any
difference of phase — but no, I could distort the wave function a
little, take a little
energy, but I don’t have to have the function along this edge be
precisely E to the I V X,
but vary a little bit, make it nearly constant for a while, while it
touches, and then vary
over the strip part, and so on. Well, that just kept going. I mean, I
kept thinking about
that, and I gradually realized that the best solution is that the strip
is very short. The strip
where the surface tension is may be only one atom long, and in fact it’s
a hole — a
round hole, and not a strip. The glued portions are long as they can be,
and all the phase
71
change is in a very narrow or one atomic distance, rather than over the
long distance.
And you have these lines that are spaced from one another by the
distance
corresponding to how far you have to go to change the phase by 2 pi.
Now, if the
velocity is lower, you have to go further. Therefore the lines are
further spaced from one
another, so the energy is lower. So there is continuity; i.e., as the
velocity of the upper
region goes to zero, this energy goes to zero, and there were these
lines around which
there was a circulation, and in the region in between there was free
motion without
circulation. This was the invention of the vortex line. I understood it
— and I kind of
jumped out of bed, see. Then I went on and did the usual thing in any of
these
researches — raising different arguments, purifying the analysis,
clearing it up, making
more powerful arguments, and understanding it deeper and deeper once the
clue is given
that this is the only way it can be, that the strips are really lines,
and so on and so on and
so on. And I made this theory of vortex lines. Then I found out that
Onsager had
proposed that there were such lines, many years back, in a reference.
There was an article
— it was in some Italian journal. There was a conference, and there was
somebody
talking about super-conductivity, and then a question period. He said
that he thought
that in the super fluidity of helium, this, that and the other thing
would happen. He
described these lines exactly. I had never seen it. What’s amusing is,
he has these things,
and he doesn’t publish them much. They’re very accurate and wonderful,
and nobody
pays much attention.
Weiner:
How did this help in explaining experimental…?
Feynman:
Well, that was the thing. I hadn’t gotten to the flow. I had two things
missing. I hadn’t
known how to describe the flow of helium when it was above the critical
velocity, and I
hadn’t figured out how the transition works, very near the transition.
And I had at last
solved the first one, but the transition I have never solved.
Weiner:
What was the name of that paper? What did it correspond to?
Feynman:
Well, now, let me just look for just a second, if you have just a
second. I have the papers
here, and I can tell you. It’s not in any of the Physical Review papers.
It came afterwards,
and it’s in an article in a book.
Weiner:
72
There’s a book “Progress in Low Temperature Physics.”
Feynman:
That’s right, yes, exactly.
Weiner:
Published in ‘55.
Feynman:
That’s it. There’s where it is.
Weiner:
Volume I, Chapter 2. I see.
Feynman:
Hm-mm, relating to helium, there’s one other thing. In the meantime,
Michael Cohen
was working with them. I had tried to make more accurate calculations of
the energy of
the excitations of the roton and had gotten some ideas, but hadn’t
carried them all the
way through. They were too hard. And Michael Cohen found they weren’t as
hard as I
thought. He was very clever and worked it out very carefully, and got a
more accurate
estimate of the energy of the excitations of liquid helium by a more
complicated wave
function. The fit was done very much better. It was not off by a factor
of 2 but by 20, 30
percent.
Weiner:
Who is Michael Cohen?
Feynman:
A statement.
Weiner:
And did he get his Ph.D. under you?
Feynman:
73
Yeah, this was his Ph.D. thesis, I think.
Weiner:
Which one, the energy spectrum or an article on roton state?
Feynman:
No, the energy spectrum.
Weiner:
Then you have a Reviews of Modern Physics article on super-fluidity and
superconductivity. Was this sort of a summary?
Feynman:
I don’t remember that. That must be in some… Some meeting or something,
where they
asked me to give a summary and I made it into a paper, as far as I know.
I’m not sure.
Weiner:
Now, there’s one paper that intrudes in this — there’s two. There’s a
quantum
electrodynamics paper, with Beranger and Bethe, on “Relativistic
Correction to the
Lamb Shift.”
Feynman:
Right. Well, that was in a continuation…
Weiner:
That was in 1954, right?
Feynman:
Right. Well, I tried to get more accuracy in the Lamb shift calculation.
The next order of
accuracy, of course, interested me from the beginning, and I tried many
ways. It was
quite complicated, but I invented a number of suggestions for
simplifying it, and so on.
But then I left Cornell. I had also started Beranger on the problem, or
Bethe and I had.
Bethe and Beranger finished it, using some of the things I suggested.
They did a lot of
independent work, but we all three have our names on the paper, because
I kind of got
some of the ideas in the beginning. I didn’t carry it all the way
through, and they carried
74
it all the way through to get the next order correction in there.
Weiner:
So this was earlier work.
Feynman:
Earlier work that they continued doing until they finished it.
Weiner:
Then there’s an article with Speisman…
Feynman:
Speisman, yeah.
Weiner:
On “Proton-Neutron Mass Difference,” in ‘54. Now, where did this start?
Feynman:
Yeah, that was at Caltech. The story of that one is simple and
interesting. Speisman came
in. He’s looking for a thesis. These guys come in and they’re looking
for some kind of
thesis job, see? So, I don’t know — among the various problems, I
suggested the
following problem. It is well known that the neutron is heavier than the
proton. We all
believe that the energy due to electrical charge is positive, and that
the difference in mass
between neutron and proton is probably electrical. The electrodynamic
theory gives a
positive answer. I had looked at it, in fact, long ago, when I was first
doing quantum
electrodynamics. I got the sign and it was positive. The energy of the
proton should have
been heavier than the energy of the neutron, as I remembered it. All
right? Yet the
energy of the neutron was heavier than that of the proton. So I would
explain to him,
therefore, that there must be something wrong with the electrodynamics,
or some
peculiarity in the electrodynamics. There must be some strange way in
which either the
neutron or the proton interacts with protons at high energy so that when
you do the
integrals the sign gets reversed, because I can’t believe it’s anything
but electrodynamic.
Then there was data, measurements of the behavior of protons bombarding
protons,
making mesons and so on. Here’s the project: You find out what kind of
modifications
you would have to make of electrodynamics to get the sign reversed, what
kind of thing
you could learn, what kinds of things experiment permits, and make some
suggestion
then of an experiment to check the proposed thing, so that we can
understand this
75
difference. So then I said to him: “In order to learn this, the thing
you should do first is
to calculate the difference in the regular way, without any
modifications, and you’ll notice
that the proton is necessarily bigger than the mass of the neutron.” So
he went off to do
this first, see — regular way. So he did it, and he came back. There was
something funny
about the way he did it. Yes, he came back with the energy formula, and
he had some
sign reversed, because he had the proton lighter than the neutron. I
pointed out where
the sign was wrong on the term. He went back, and he found that the sign
was not
wrong on all his terms, just one, and he found that the other sign was
the other way. So
we found that the answer could come out the other way. I don’t know what
I had done
wrong when I first did the calculations. I had done it relatively
quickly the first time,
when I was at Cornell, long ago, and I had gotten positive for the
difference — whereas
if you just went ahead and did it, you’d get negative. Speisman just
went ahead and did it
and found it was negative. He found that the regular electrodynamics
predicted a
negative mass difference. See, it could predict a negative mass
difference. It didn’t have
to be positive, whereas I had thought it had to be positive because all
the terms were
positive. Oh, I remember, we had a little byplay of confusion, where I
pointed out an
error in sign and he pointed out that he made the same error therefore
in the other term.
So as I was correcting it, he was uncorrecting it at the same moment.
Anyhow, I felt then
that the puzzle, that this energy was the wrong sign, was not a serious
puzzle. And we
simply wrote that paper to say that the sign being reversed was not a
definite proof that
it wasn’t electromagnetic. Some people have misunderstood the paper, and
claim that we
tried to make a calculation of the mass difference quantitatively. But I
was only trying to
show that the fact that the proton was lighter than the neutron did not
mean that it was
impossible that the difference was electromagnetic.
Weiner:
Did this have much effect on theoretical thinking?
Feynman:
I don’t know what effect it had on the thinking in the field because,
see, what I didn’t
know is to what extent people thought that it was impossible to get the
sign reversed. I
don’t know to what extent they thought that. Since I thought that it
was, to me it was
important noticing that the sign was reversed. Then came another little
game, in which
Weisskopf argued that the sign was wrong by physical arguments. Anyway,
we all got
everything straightened out, and Weisskopf finally got a physical
argument to explain
where everything came from. It was very very simple, and I was ashamed
of myself,
because I should have been able to see the sign of this thing by
ordinary argument and
not by calculation. Weisskopf tried to see if by ordinary argument. And
then following
his argument, I was able to see the thing. Maybe he just told me how to
do it. There’s an
error in this paper. That also helped to make it hard for me to
understand.
76
Weiner:
In your paper?
Feynman:
In this paper with Speisman. It says that “the term for mu — zero
representing the
coupling of current with current is positive, as is also the term in mu
squared.” But the
term in mu squared was in fact negative, if we had done it right. And
the whole thing has
to do with this — that the energy of a magnet is in fact negative. If
you compare two
objects which have the same angular momentum, one charged and one
uncharged, you
can show that the energy of the magnetized one, which is the current
going around, is
negative, not positive. And that’s classical physics. But we didn’t know
that. See, the
energy of a charge is plus, but the energy of a magnetic field, when you
compare the field
with the same angular momentum, is negative. It’s a simple fact of
classical physics, and
it would have been easy because the magnetic moment of the proton is
bigger than that
of the neutron. Therefore the negative contribution of energy in the
magnet could
exceed the positive contribution from the charge, and there you are.
Weiner:
That’s the explanation now, but it wasn’t included in the paper?
Feynman:
We didn’t know at that time. We really made a big calculation and it
came out minus, but
then Weisskopf pointed out why. So it’s very simple. Very simple.
Weiner:
You know, the next thing, as far as a major piece of work goes, appears
to be the Beta-
decay work. Do you agree?
Feynman:
No. There’s a business about the poloron.
Weiner:
I’m sorry. “The slow electrons and the polar crystals?”
Feynman:
Yeah. That’s in between, isn’t it? Certainly it is.
77
Weiner:
Yeah, let’s see –- wait –- ‘55.
Feynman:
Yeah. Now, if you’ll just turn that off for a few minutes… Incidentally,
I found a
published article by me on a talk given to the World Affairs group that
I have upstairs,
that I’ll let you have. All right. Turn it off so I can say hello to my
boy…
Weiner:
It’s working.
Feynman:
“Slow electrons in a polar crystal?”
Weiner:
Yes, there were two papers.
Feynman:
All right. I’ve got a letter to Feurlich on this story. You might be
able to find — I’ll try to
find a copy. But anyhow, one day I was feeling kind of low, nothing to
do, so, you know
how you goof off. And there was a pretty librarian around at the time. I
thought that she
was working in the library, so I went into the library to — look at her.
And I just picked
up a book in order to have something to do, and it was Advances in
Physics, and there
was an article in there by Feurlich on slow electrons, an electron
moving in a polar
crystal. He described the problem, and said that if this problem is
solved it will go a long
way toward understanding superconductivity — a remark which I didn’t
understand in
the slightest. I still don’t and it was not in fact correct. At any
rate, the problem was
interesting. It was, to find the energy of an electron which is in
interaction with the
phonons of the crystal. And this is just like the field theory problem
of a particle in
interaction with a meson field, except that the complications of
relativity are removed,
and all of the divergent difficulties are non-existent, and so on. I
know that I had
developed methods of doing these kinds of things with finite coupling
constants (which
is what the problem was, to figure the energy out with finite coupling
constants), and I
thought: Well, I’ll try my path integral scheme on this thing — the
usual game. So I set it
up in terms of path integrals, and I fooled around with it. I had
gradually been getting
the idea that there must be some kind of a minimum principle for the
calculation of path
78
integrals. I had an assistant at the time called Beranger, and I never
could give him
anything to do. I mean, I let him just run — I just can’t work well with
assistants. So I
thought, what the hell, I’ll tell him to see if he can find this minimum
principle for path
integration. So I went upstairs. “You know, Beranger, I’ve got a good
problem you
might like to work on.” And I said, “I think there ought to be a minimum
principle for
path integrals that’s something like this. Try to find it.” He said,
“Well, which way would
you turn? What makes you think that there’s a minimum principle — how
could you
expect it — what do you think it’s like?” I said I thought it would be
something like this.
You could set up this — and I started to write something — and then do
something like
this, and then the difference of these two would be less than that, of
course, because of
this, and you gradually — and so on and so on. When I got all finished,
I had proved
that I had found a minimum principle. He said, “But that seems to me to
be a minimum
principle already. You seem to have it all proved here.” I said, “Yes,
indeed I do. Thank
you very much.” I was so ready to get it that I thought — you know. In
fact, that’s an
example of the reason I can’t work well with students or assistants. I
don’t like to give a
person a job unless I think it can be solved. I don’t think much can be
solved, most of
the time. I don’t want to give them a job until I think it can be solved
in some way that’s
reasonable to do. And that means that I have to nearly do it, because
the only way I can
tell if a thing is possible to solve is to solve it. So I always find
myself doing most or a lot
of the work, and just a little extra, see. Ok. Anyway, I had invented a
minimum principle
for doing path integrals, and I applied it to the polaron problem rather
easily and very
nicely and simply. And I got, in a most direct fashion, a very accurate
answer for the
energy of the polaron different coupling constants of the crystal, which
solved Feurlich’s
requested desire perfectly, ideally. If necessary, you could get more
accuracy, but it
wasn’t at all necessary. Incidentally, I have since worked out the
energy to higher
accuracy, but have not published the answer. It’s not necessary for
anything, but it’s
interesting to keep on going. But it was very accurate the way it stood,
from various
tests. And that has interested me very much, because I had tried after
that to translate
what I did into the normal language of Hamiltonian and other forms of
quantum
mechanics, and I have not ever been able to translate it. In other
words, I can’t find out
what to do in the normal language, without path integrals, which is
equivalent to the
formulas that I obtain for the energy of the polaron. And my energy for
the polaron is,
over the greatest range of parameters at least, the lowest energy — I
mean, a more
accurate energy than any other energy by any other method calculated. So
I have a very
powerful tool, and I can’t find a way of translating it into normal
language. So the path
integral really has some value of importance besides the fact that I can
do everything the
other way. I know, Case laughed at me, and it’s amusing because he said,
“I remember
once you were complaining that you couldn’t find any problem that you
could do with
path integrals that you couldn’t do the other way. And now you’ve found
one, and now
you’re complaining that you can’t find another way to do the problem
except with path
integrals.” The reason I wanted to find another way very hard was that
the path integrals
are limited to cases where there’re no spin operators or other
operators, and the
corresponding problems. The method would apply, say, to electron
interaction with
photons and so on, if I could only find some way to translate — and
there I operated
79
like gamma matrices and so on. And the techniques might work, if I could
figure out
how to translate it into more conventional language, because I can’t
write those other
things in the path integral form. So that’s why I struggled to then find
it in normal
language, but I have never been able to find that in all those years —
over ten years since
that time — and nobody else has, as far as I know, although maybe they
have. So this, I
think, was a very important step. It shows that the field theory is not
in a difficulty by
itself. It’s just the relativity and the divergences that make it
impossible to make
calculations. If those things were removed we could really make
calculations, accurate
ones, without difficulty, that do not necessarily involve expansions —
perturbation
expansion. It’s always been criticized that all we have is perturbation
expansions, but I
think the reason is that the field theory isn’t really wrong. It’s
divergent, it’s incorrect and
we can’t calculate anything because we get silly answers. We can’t find
them because we
haven’t got the intuition to guess at the answer — because it’s silly.
And when the
problem is physically sensible, completely sensible, in the same realm
of mathematics as
field theory, as this polaron problem is, it’s quite trackable. So
that’s the result of that.
Sometime later, questions came up about other properties of these
polarons. People
became interested in calculating the energy. I calculated also the mass
of the polaron, the
inertia. By experiment, people got interested in another thing — what
they called the
mobility, which means: you have an electron in a crystal and you put AC
on it and you
ask, to what extent does it respond? How much does it move? And that had
a finite
frequency.
Weiner:
They were interested in this because of developments in solid state?
Feynman:
And experiments and so on, yes. I wasn’t really interested in the
problem of fluid solid
state application. I just picked up the problem as an exercise for the
advanced student.
You know what I mean; it was a challenge to do, and I just did it
because it was easy. But
then some of the boys, some of the students, Platzman and Nittings, I
think — or
maybe only Platzman, or whatever it is — said that they were interested
in this practical
problem, this problem through solid state, and could I also get other
properties? Now,
of course, if you can really calculate the energy accurately, you have
some understanding
of the thing and all its properties, and it’s just a question of working
some more to get
the other properties. People didn’t pay much attention, but they
complained that all I
could do is find the energy. But that isn’t true; it’s just that they
didn’t know how to do
it. And so I demonstrated by finding the mobility, and I also found the
correction. I also
calculated that to one higher order and set that up to show that you can
improve that.
But I’ve never published that.
Weiner:
80
But the paper that you did publish —
Feynman:
The paper that I did publish was a very much better estimate of the
mobility of a polaron
than had ever been determined before. But the methods are quite
difficult for people to
follow, because they’re not used to the path integrals, and they’ve
always been objecting
that the path integrals do everything the same as anything so why do
they have to learn
them? And here is a problem where you have to learn them and they don’t
bother
because, you know no other reason to learn them, or something. They
always try to find
— it’s perfectly natural — a way, in terms of their own way, to get the
same results or
equivalent. That’s what I do all the time to other people’s work, so —
fair enough. But I
do think that it was exciting to me. It still is because it shows the
problem, which is
beyond the usual range of mathematics, for which one of my invented
mathematical
forms is useful and can do something nobody else can do.
Weiner:
Rather unique —
Feynman:
Yes — for a change. Instead of finding another way of doing something
that everybody
can do, I found a way to do things better than they can do by any other
way known. So,
it still appeals to me. It’s interesting. It’s all been a sort of side
issue for me from the
beginning, a sort of exercise and a game. It’s been a side issue, and a
little pleasure to
solve such a problem, but not a directly central challenge. It’s just
that I happened to
notice in the library that this problem was one that was probably within
the range of my
tools; and it was, in fact.
Weiner:
Now, you published the first paper on that problem in 1955, and then the
other one you
mentioned was in 1962. What about that period, 1955? I know you went
back to Japan
for a couple of months and so forth, but what about the work itself?
What’s the next
logical step for us?
Feynman:
Oh, during that period I spent an awful lot of time trying to understand
superconductivity. I did an awful lot of calculations and developed a
lot of methods,
which I’ve seen gradually developed by other people for other problems.
But I didn’t
solve the original problem that I was trying to solve, which was, where
does
81
superconductivity come from? And so I never published anything. But I
have done an
enormous amount of work on it. There’s a big vacuum at that time, which
is my attempt
to solve the superconductivity problem — which I failed to do.
Weiner:
But you did publish an article on superconductivity and solidity.
Feynman:
That was probably the result of some meeting where somebody asked me to
give a
summary of the situation or something.
Weiner:
It was Reviews of Modern Physics.
Feynman:
That’s where it’s published, but I think that’s what it was — some
speech given
somewhere. No, it’s not a work. See, there’s a complete difference
between these surveys
and things like real research work. That paper is not research work.
It’s just some
qualitative remarks, a result of unsuccessful research. It’s not worth
anything. I don’t
remember what’s in it.
Weiner:
It’s a review paper, I assume, it was published there.
Feynman:
No, I don’t review. I mean, I wouldn’t go over there and say what
everybody’s doing and
what the present situation is. No, I don’t write that kind of paper,
where you can use it
for references to the field or any such. It’s not a review paper.
Weiner:
This might be a good time to ask: Have you ever had a paper rejected?
Feynman:
No. No. No. [Slowly]
82
Weiner:
Just a curious point — you know, it wouldn’t show up on a bibliography,
it’s sort of
negative.
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
Have you ever had any difficulty with referees, in terms of papers?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
So usually you send it in and it’s accepted as such.
Feynman:
Ever since the first paper, which is the Review of Modern Physics paper
on path
integrals, in which there was a small objection which I mentioned,
there’s never been
anything. I mean, I send it in and it gets published, just the way it
is.
Weiner:
Who would be the likely referee on your papers on quantum
electrodynamics, for
example? There wasn’t a very large group that they could turn to.
Feynman:
I don’t know how that works. I myself don’t referee any papers.
Weiner:
What was your attitude on that?
Feynman:
Well, I started to try to look at the papers of other people but, you
see, I have a funny
83
thing. To me there’s an infinite amount of work involved. I would have
to first
understand how he’s thinking about it — not just understand the problem,
but what he’s
thinking about it. Then I’d have to go and see, is it Ok? Hm. Or what is
it? I mean, it’s
too much work, darn it. It’s like almost research: checking the ideas,
seeing if it really
works, and so on. It’s like research, and I can’t do somebody else’s
research. I’m not
built that way. I can’t think his way. I can’t follow and try to go
through all these steps. If
I want to worry about the problem, I read the paper to get the problem,
and then maybe
work it out some other way. But it’s too much work. Now, to read and
just check steps
— I can’t do it. And then, if a paper comes out that’s bad, that’s not
very good, I’d feel
very uncomfortable to say that there’s something the matter with it, or
that it’s not OK,
because maybe I’m not understanding. Maybe it is OK; maybe somebody else
will see
that it’s all right. I think it’s a lot of nonsense. Finally, I think
most of the papers are a lot
of nonsense and not worth publishing. And so, altogether it’s a
miserable business, and I
just say I won’t review any papers in order to simplify it because if I
start reviewing some
and not others, then it sounds like a criticism. There are a number of
other things — I
have resisted the outside world on this and a number of other things.
For example, I
never give commentary on whether a man is loyal or not loyal. You know
this kind of
investigation. And I got everybody off my back on that by just saying I
won’t do it. And
I never review papers. And one thing I would like not to have to do, but
I can’t avoid, is
writing recommendations for students. But after all, sometimes nobody
else knows
them, and they’re trying to get a job. So I have to do that. But I find
it very distasteful. I
don’t like to judge other people, or their work, at all. I don’t. I
don’t want to judge
somebody else’s work.
Weiner:
Ok. That’s interesting —
Feynman:
But I have to. It’s part of the job with regard to the students. There’s
no other solution.
Weiner:
And also the fact that there is no recommendation coming from you might
be
interpreted negatively.
Feynman:
No. That I have avoided in the other cases by making a policy statement
ahead of time,
before they tell me who they’re asking about. I say I simply do not
review papers. Or
when they send me a paper for review or something, I say, “You’re
probably not aware
of my general policy not to review papers,” and send it back. So it
sounds like it has
nothing to do with this paper.
84
Weiner:
Now, there is a paper here that sounds as if it might be maybe out of
the war date -–
“Dispersion of the Neutron Emission in U-235 Fission.”
Feynman:
Right, it is.
Weiner:
With de Hoffman and Serber — this was a holdover?
Feynman:
Right.
Weiner:
Well, unless you think of something to say on that, let’s get on to the
beta decay thing. I
don’t want to rush you, but I do think it’s the next thing to come to.
Feynman:
All right.
Weiner:
Its ‘57 that you publish the “Theory of the Fermi Interaction.”
Feynman:
I just want to say that during this period I had been working from time
to time on two
problems, neither of which I have solved. One is turbulence of fluids,
the theory of
turbulence, and the other is superconductivity, so that there’s a lot of
time spent on these
things without anything on your list there. They were unsuccessful. I
just wanted to
mention that there’s an awful lot of effort poured into things that
don’t come out. I did
do something on the Onsager problem at one point, when Cox gave a
report, or some
other problem. And sometimes people say, “How is it you’re suddenly
working on this?”
It’s just that I finally got some success. I work often on a large range
of things that don’t
work out. Then there’s silence. And then people say, “Why are you
suddenly doing this?”
Well, yeah, I finally got somewhere on this. It’s not that I suddenly
did it.
85
Weiner:
Right — well, the visible part of your work is —
Feynman:
Yeah — comes out of the surface — Now, the next problem is the beta
decay problem.
Yes, let me go back all the way to the very beginning of my relation to
that problem. At
one of the meetings of the Rochester Conference, there was a session
devoted to the
puzzling fact that there seemed to be two kinds of K mesons. One would
disintegrate
into 2 pi’s, and one would disintegrate into 3 pi’s. One was called a K
and the other was
called a Tau. And it became apparent that the masses of these two things
were practically
equal, so it might have been the same particle. Then at that meeting,
there was reported
by somebody something which impressed me personally as the greatest.
That was that
the proportions of Taus and Ks that are produced by the cyclotron at
different angles,
and at different energies, are almost the same, no matter what the angle
and energy. So
the possibility was that the same particle was disintegrating in two
different ways. But
this was against the principle of conservation of parity. Ok. I was
rooming with a man at
the time — Martin Block. So Martin Block said to me when we were going
to bed, after
the discussion of the experimental situation on this problem — he says,
“All you guys
worrying all the time about this Tau-Theta puzzle.” Tau-Theta, I guess
it was called —
there was a Theta meson and a Tau meson, now called the K meson. He
said, “You
know, from an experimental point of view, it’s very easy. It’s just the
same particle. It’s
only that your principle of conservation of parity is cockeyed.” He said
to me, “What
would be wrong with assuming that the conservation of parity is wrong?”
So I said,
“Well, let’s see. That would mean you could distinguish right and left,
in a fundamental
way, but there’s nothing the matter with that. I don’t see anything
wrong with it. But I
haven’t been involved in these things, and I’ll ask the experts
tomorrow, hm.” So I said,
“That’s a very good question, and you should ask the guys tomorrow.” So
he said, “No,
you ask them for me. They won’t even listen to me.” “All right,” I said,
“Ok.” So I got
up and I said, “I’m asking this question for Martin Block.” I’ve been
teased a lot about
that. People tease me on the grounds that I said that because I thought
it was such a
ridiculous idea. But it was quite the opposite. I said that because I
wanted to establish the
correct priority for the idea. I swear that. I mean, it was not because
I thought it was
silly, but because I thought it might be possible. And it was so good an
idea, and might
be possible at that time, that I wanted to be sure they knew where it
came from. I said,
“I ask this question for Martin Block. What goes wrong if you assume —”
you know,
that parity is not violated. And I think Lee answered it, or something.
It was a long
complicated answer that I didn’t understand. Then afterwards Block said,
“What did he
say?” And I said, “I don’t know, Martin, what he said. It seems to me
still possible that
parity is violated.” Martin tells me, but this is not my direct
experience, that he went
home on the train with Lee and argued with him.
86
Weiner:
I thought it was the plane. I’ve heard this story, I think. Was it the
plane or the train?
Feynman:
I don’t remember. Maybe it’s plane. He argued with Lee about it,
explaining again and
again that it could be, and trying to prove that it wasn’t impossible.
Lee was thinking it
couldn’t be, I guess, although I wasn’t there. Anyway, as far as I was
concerned, that
remained a real possibility but with a long chance, because of the
prejudices that I had. A
long chance — but the thing was a deep puzzle. And I appreciated the
seriousness of it
from the data I had just heard about the angles and the energies. It
looked very much
like the same particle. So I knew that it was possible. I didn’t think
it was likely, but I
thought it was a real alternative. In fact, some time later Ramsey,
Norman Ramsey, asked
me about this. He says, “There might be something the matter with the
parity,” because
it was getting in the wind now. “Would you think I should do a parity
experiment on
beta decay, to see if it was, you know, symmetrical or not?” I said,
“Yes, you should do
the experiment, but the odds are it will turn out symmetrical.” He said,
“Will you bet me
100 to 1 that I won’t find —” I said, “No.” “Will you bet me 50 to 1 I
won’t find it’s
asymmetrical?” I said, “Yes.” So we made the bet as to whether parity
was conserved. I
mention this story because I was prejudiced against thinking that parity
wasn’t
conserved, but I knew it might not be. In other words, I wouldn’t be 100
to 1, just 50 to
1. Ramsey said, “Well, 50 to 1 is good enough for me because the goal,
the yield, of
course, would be so important. If you think that the chances are as good
as 1 in 50 that
this may be wrong, it’s certainly worth doing.” So he said he was
probably going to do
this. He didn’t, unfortunately, get to do it. In the meantime, as you
all know, Lee and
Yang developed the idea and further proposed definite experiments which
were done by
Wu and other people, and the parity was found to be violated in beta
decay and in mu
decay.
Weiner:
This meeting in Rochester, I believe, was in 1956.
Feynman:
I think so. Right.
Weiner:
Morton Kaplan told me the story of someone — I didn’t remember the name
at the time
— getting up on the floor and Block defending this view, either publicly
or privately, and
on the plane, the way I heard it, lecturing him for not understanding
that he is going to
violate conservation of parity, and he should know better. This is, of
course, a bit of
87
folklore now, and so —
Feynman:
But this may be a very difficult question. You’d better check sources,
because it may be
that Block exaggerates the situation of the conversation on the plane
and tells several
different people. I got the story from Block. Couldn’t it be that your
other source got the
story from Block?
Weiner:
Yes, Morton Kaplan did get it from Block.
Feynman:
Ok. So there you are. It has to be checked in some other way.
Weiner:
I read the proceedings of the conference.
Feynman:
Yes, but I’m talking about what happened on the plane. It has to be
checked some other
way. The Proceedings of the conference do say, “I’m asking this question
for Mr. Block”
in there. They say what I said, yeah. They also say at the end, “Well, I
think it’s time to
close our minds again,” says Oppenheimer.
Weiner:
Yes, at the end of the discussion.
Feynman:
Yes, that’s right. He felt that the idea was so ridiculous. That’s what
it sounded like, you
know.
Weiner:
He said, “We’ve ranged over this, you know. We’ve had a lot of fun with
it. Now we can
close our minds again.”
Feynman:
88
Yes. That was amusing.
Weiner:
All right, then —
Feynman:
OK. I got interested in the beta decay all the time, and there were some
people doing
research at Caltech — Berne and Wastrow and… no Jensen, but a friend of
Jensen, a
third guy. I can’t remember his name. Maybe I’ll remember it later.
Anyhow, these
fellows were doing some experiments in beta decay and testing some of
the — Oh, no,
I’ve jumped a little bit. I’ve jumped a little bit — wait. There was a
meeting in, I believe,
Rochester, another meeting in Rochester, where by this time all the
excitement is out —
that is, that there is a violation of parity. And the question is what’s
the law of it? Well, I
sometimes have trouble keeping up. I get behind and I get discouraged. I
was telling my
sister that I wasn’t doing any work, that I can’t do any work, and so
on. And I said,
“There’s this paper by Lee that he’s going to talk about tomorrow, with
the parity
violation, and I don’t know anything about it myself. I can’t understand
it.” She said,
“What do you mean, you can’t understand it?” “I don’t understand it.”
She said, “Did
you go down through it step by step?” I said, “No, I tried to figure the
same thing out
myself.” She said, “Listen — for once, it will do you good, my young
friend —” (my
sister’s a physicist) -– “you sit down with the paper, like a student,
and instead of
guessing what the heck it is, you sit down and you do it step by step.”
“Ok.” So I sat
down and did it step by step, and it was very simple. It described the
particular way that
the parity might be violated, that the neutrino only spun one way. When
I looked at the
forms of the thing, I realized that there was another way of expressing
it. It may be that
the electron, muon and so on, are also coupled with a certain component
of the Dirac
equation. In playing with path integrals, I was forced into using a
second order form for
the Dirac equation, which was not obviously parity conserving. There was
a wave
function in the thing. It just looked parity conserving. And if I used
that wave function,
that was just the combination of what’s called, 1 plus gamma 5 times the
other wave
function, which was appearing in front of the neutrino. But I thought,
why not put it
also in front of the electron? So I put it in front of the electron and
the neutrino and the
mu and so on, at that time, and concluded that I would have to have
vector and axial
vector coupling, and that would get the same result that those people
got for the mu
spectrum, but with the opposite sign on the spin. And electron
disintegration in every
beta decay would always have to have the same polarization, whereas
there were some
clues that had different directions of polarization for different
elements disintegrating.
Anyway, it would be nice to know what the record of that meeting was. I
got up and I
proposed this theory, in which I thought it was in front of the electron
and the mu, and
not necessarily the neutrino. And I thought that I would predict that
the spin of the mu
is backwards, that Lee and Yang have the sign reversed, and that when we
figure it out
89
the direction of the spin of the mu will be the opposite of what they
say. It was opposite.
I mentioned some experiments, and people who were trying to measure it
talked to me
about it — how we could distinguish the things and so on. Then I was
asked, what
happens with the beta decay, with the nucleon case? I would say, “The
trouble with my
theory is it predicts it has to be V and A; it can’t be S and T,” and I
made all kinds of
complications. I got into a long complicated thing. It was only the
night before that I
worked this out, see, at my sister’s house, because she’s in Syracuse
and Rochester’s
nearby, and I stayed there when I went to the meeting. It was only the
night before. I
hadn’t had much time. I knew its S and T. Everybody knew it’s S and T —
two different
couplings, scalar and tensor. Whereas this theory would say it had to be
V and A, and it
wasn’t. So that was wrong. There must be some complication with the
nucleons, and I
told them about various ways I tried to kind of mix it up to get it to
be like S and T, but
I couldn’t get anywhere. It was mixed up and I wasn’t happy with it. I
presented it just as
another alternative. I realize now that there was something important
that I hadn’t
noticed — that in the Lee and Yang paper, the mu decay involved two
constants, F1 and
F2, I forget what the letters are. They noticed that the data fitted if
F1 equals F2. So they
said F1 equaled F2. But they got it from the data. I wasn’t very
careful. Once I got my
idea, I was careless again. In my view, the fact that F1 and F2 were
equal was necessary,
you see, and if I had noticed that, I would have realized I really was
one step advanced. I
wasn’t sure whether I was just saying it in a different way, and wasn’t
saying any more
than they were or not. I thought I didn’t say any more than they did. I
said something
different, but not more. I hadn’t realized at that time that the fact
that Fl and F2 were
equal was not a consequence of their theory, but was a result of the
experiment. In mine
it was a consequence. I would have been much more impressed by my idea,
because it
would contain something that hadn’t been noticed. You know, I would have
realized I
was a step nearer the truth. But this way I thought I was only as close
as they were, with
an alternative view. And then — well, nothing much happened. I went to
Brazil on a
trip. During this time there were lots of measurements, and there were
all kinds of
inconsistencies. People were measuring spin of the electrons to the
right and to the left
and everything. And in that theory I had had it always one way, to the
left. And they
were getting all kinds of answers, and they were getting
inconsistencies, and they were
measuring everything over again, and everything was… I came back from
Brazil, and I
went to Wu’s laboratory to visit. She wasn’t there, but one of the
people there told me all
the data that was available now, the new data. See, I wanted to work on
it again. Then, in
passing, I visited my sister, and I said, “I can’t do any work, I don’t
do any work.” She
said, “Listen — you have done it again and again. You have many times
told me about
an idea, like the parity idea, that you thought was right. You told me
that Block might be
right. And you don’t do a damn thing about it. You should write it up,
for crying out
loud, when you have something like this. You told me V mesons must
disintegrate with
another meson — didn’t even write it up. And you told me many things,”
she said,
“which later turn out to be true, that you don’t write up. And you say
you have nothing
to do. Well, last year, when you were here, you told me about the beta
decay as another
kind of law. What you must do,” she says, “is just go home and write
that up, that’s all.
Just write that up.” I say, “Ok, I’ll write that up. I’ll go home and
write that up.” I went
90
to Wu’s lab to get the data, and then I went to Caltech. I came in from
the vacation and I
said to the boys, “What’s new with the data?” There were all kinds of
experiments. And
they told me there were all kinds of experiments, everything’s
inconsistent, everything’s
all mixed up. They told me about their own experiments, other people’s
experiments,
and so on. I didn’t believe other people’s experiments because I didn’t
see their
equipment (because I know how to check, evaluate experiments). I’d seen
what those
fellows had done, and how they measured, and I knew everything inside
out. So I knew
it was right, whereas I didn’t know the others were right. So I only
paid attention to what
they said, and not to what the others said. See, I had a certain
prejudice. I was therefore
correct, though, because the experiments were right. I knew they were,
because I had
looked at the way they did it. So I knew. I had the advantage over some
people, at least,
in that I had a little selector that would select some experiments at
least that were right.
And I threw away everything I hadn’t looked at. In their explaining to
me how it is, they
show me that for each experiment there’s an opposite experiment. For
everything,
there’s something that shows the opposite, and it’s just a chaos, an
abject mess. Finally
— Speck was the other guy, Speck — Speck or Wastrow or one of them says
to me,
when explaining this whole thing (I’m sitting on a chair, and they’re
pouring all this data
to me, and everything’s inconsistent, and they’re trying to show how
terribly impossible
it is to understand) — finally he says, “It’s so mixed up that Gell-Mann
says it could even
be V. vector, instead of scalar.” Well, the possibility that it was
vector instead of scalar,
which was now available, released the trigger of memory, and I flew out
of the chair at
that moment, and said, “Then I understand everything. I understand
everything and I’ll
explain it to you tomorrow morning.” They thought when I said that, I’m
making a joke,
because they had just said to me, “It’s so confusing that nothing —
everything is all
mixed up —.” But I jump up: “Then I understand it all!” Ha, ha, ha. And
ran away. And
they thought I was making a joke. But I didn’t make a joke. The release
from the tyranny
of thinking it was S and T was all I needed, because I had a theory in
which if V and A
were possible, V and A were right, because it was a neat thing and it
was pretty — except
for this one trouble with nuclei which was so complicated. But if this
was possible, then
that must be right. So I ran home and I started to figure. And I figured
out the rate of
disintegration of the neutron and the mu. You’ve seen these papers. I
noticed that they
were the same rate, according to this theory, within 9 percent. I wasn’t
sure what that
meant. I was worried about the 9 percent. I wanted them to be equal. I
thought they had
to be equal. Then I calculated a few other things that predicted that
the spin was always
one way and so on. I calculated all the things which fitted with the
stuff from Caltech
data, but not necessarily other data, and kind of organized and checked
various things,
and concluded I was on the right track with everything. I got it right.
Everything was all
right. One of the mysteries up to that time had been why isn’t it
simple, like pure S or
pure T? V and A had to go together with these things. Before it was two
kinds of beta
decay, what they call Fermi coupling and Gamow-Teller coupling. It’s one
thing now, so
it’s very beautiful, simple — the understanding of a great mystery and
so on and so on.
So I was pretty sure I had everything right, except for the 9 percent.
And I remember I
went to a restaurant up here to eat, and some physics guy came in. And
he said, “How
are you doing?” I said, “I just got the formula for beta decay — only
trouble is, it’s off
91
by 9 percent.” By the next morning, I’d forgotten about this little
annoyance of the 9
percent, because various other checks that I can’t remember now
convinced me more
and more that there can be nothing wrong with this, that this is
absolutely right.
Weiner:
How long did you work on it?
Feynman:
Overnight.
Weiner:
All night long?
Feynman:
I don’t remember. I can’t remember, because there were times when I
worked — it was
probably nearly all night long. Very likely. Then I called my sister up,
during the night, at
night, and said, “Thank you for making me work on this. I really have
found something.
I understand beta decay, except that it’s 9 percent off, which I don’t
understand. It
should be equal.” So by morning, by the next morning, I forgot the 9
percent. See, so
many other things agreed, everything was going nicely, the form of the
mu decay
spectrum, the data that they showed me about the directions of
polarization, everything
was just right. Everything was just locking in. It was clack, clack,
clack — if I selected the
right data. It required no selection. I’d already made the selection — I
had the Caltech
data. All this worked. So I then ran down and I went to Christy’s
office. Speck was there,
or somebody, maybe Wastrow too and maybe Forbirm — I don’t know, a
couple of
guys — and I said: “Listen, I got beta decay understood; I’d like to
explain it to you.”
The law, you know, the parity violating beta decay. So they said, “Ok.”
I started to say,
“I’ve got it right, everything fits, and the mu decay rate and the
neutron decay rate check
into each other.” So Speck says to me, “What beta decay constant did you
use to do
that?” I said, “The one in the book, by Siegman.” That’s the only thing
I had. I had
borrowed it, in fact, the day before, to get the number. He says, “Well,
it’s too bad.
We’ve got new data now, and there’s a lot of checks on it, and we know
that that’s off by
7 percent.” I said, “Listen, fellows, I’m not kidding, mine was off by 9
percent — my
figure. Huh?” They said, “You said it agreed.” I said, “No, no, I
forgot, it’s off by 9
percent.” They thought I was kidding, you know. But it was really off by
9 percent and
the question now immediately was the 7 percent, which way does it go?
Does it make
mine only 2 percent off, which would be brilliant — I could do already a
prediction, you
know, it checks — or else, I’m 16 percent off and I might as well go
home and faint.
Which way? If you’re ever running for an airplane in a taxi, and you
suddenly discover
that you’re using Daylight Saving Time instead of Standard Time or
something like that,
92
and you don’t know whether you’re going to make the plane or not, and
you try to figure
out, which way? — you know how complicated it is. Well, this is the same
kind of way.
There were so many signs, you know. Christy said he’d think it out,
which way. Because
they said, “The constant is larger, which means something.” Ok. “Now,
let me think, if
the rate of this is higher and the rate of this is lower, and this —”
you know, which way
it would go? So Christy said, “I’ll think it out by myself, quietly.” He
runs. And I say, “I’ll
figure quietly.” And just at this moment, the telephone rings; my sister
calling from New
York. “Well,” she says, “very often you’ve told me you’ve got something,
and the next
morning it isn’t there. Is it still there?” I said, “Listen, I’ll call
you up in two minutes.
Can’t stand to talk to you now. I’ll call you in two minutes.” She says,
“What’s with the 9
percent?” I say, “It may be 16, it may be 2.” Clink. And it was just at
that moment that I
quietly did it. It only took three minutes. But the telephone call came
just at the time
when I couldn’t possibly answer her. It was impossible. So I didn’t even
talk to her.
Then we went very carefully over, and it turned out that the error was 2
percent, which is
very close to nothing. Christy got the same result, and we went back
over it and we
argued it with Speck and we proved it — simpler and simpler until we
were absolutely
sure which way it was, and there was nothing wrong with it. It was only
2 percent off. So
that was a very exciting moment. Then I called my sister back and said,
“It’s better than I
thought. It’s 2 percent off and everything’s all right. We’ve got the
formula.” Then I sat
down and wrote this thing up.
Weiner:
Right away?
Feynman:
Yeah, right away. I did a lot of work on it. I immediately turned my
attention to the
problem of the weak interactions of the strange particles, and what this
would say about
them, and worked out a lot of stuff to see what it said and to what
degree it agreed.
Sometimes the rates were several times too big or too small, and there
were some
puzzles. But still I knew a lot about the pattern of beta decay from
this, and I wrote this
thing up. Then Gell-Mann had come back from somewhere, and we talked it
over. It was
his original idea that V may be wrong, and he was uncomfortable. And
this is, again,
something not for publication. May I tell you something privately?
Weiner:
All right. Do you want to turn this off?
Feynman:
I don’t know what to do about this thing. Turn it off, and you see
whether. Ok. Well,
93
Murray had been working on a similar thing, and had developed — I think
with
Rosenfeld — a summary of the situation and had seen all the various
alternatives, among
others that it might be V, and in fact it might be V and A. So we
discussed this work that
I did. I discussed it with Murray. He improved a number of ways of
looking at some of
the stuff with the weak interactions for the strange particles, ways of
expressing relations,
for instance, with delta S and delta Q, and so on. So he made some
comments on the
paper, and so on. And since he had originally got the idea that it was
V, which set me
off, we decided to write the paper together.
Weiner:
I see.
Feynman:
So we put both names on it.
Weiner:
I see. So instead of your paper, as originally intended, and then
perhaps a separate paper
by him, you decided to collaborate.
Feynman:
Right. We put it together. So it looked like nobody was fighting with
anybody. We just
put it together and wrote it together.
Weiner:
Now, isn’t this the discovery, as you described it before — yesterday, I
think, off the
tape — that gave you a certain very special kind of feeling about
scientific work?
Feynman:
Yes. Right. I don’t know about everybody, but what I think is most
impressive is, like
when I read about Dirac, for example. I also get a similar feeling about
Maxwell. When,
say, Dirac got the equation he knows something about nature that nobody
else knows.
And it is a miracle that it’s possible, by doing experiments over here,
to predict what’s
going to happen over there. It is not as much a miracle to predict
something if you know
the laws about it. In other words, it’s enough of a miracle that there
are laws at all, but
what’s really a miracle is to be able to find the law. It’s another kind
of miracle. You see,
knowing a law to figure out that such and such is going to do something,
and then have
nature do it — OK, that’s pretty good. But to look at other aspects and
to guess, and to
94
know that there’s a pattern under there, and to tell nature that in this
experiment she’s
going to do that — no by deduction, strictly speaking, from what’s known
but by
guessing from what’s known — it seems a wonderful thing to me. And I
always wanted
to do that. Now, my work in electrodynamics was really using other
people’s formulas.
My electrodynamics is not unequivalent to the electrodynamics of Pauli,
Dirac, and so
on, in 1929, with some technical improvements and methods of analysis
and so on. It’s
fundamentally the same thing. Also, even the diagrams and so on only
help people make
calculations, and therefore makes predictions, but with a basic theory
which is essentially
not my own. The work with helium I got a great deal of pleasure out of
also, but it still
wasn’t exactly that same category, because in the work on helium I had
the Schrodinger
equation which I thought was going to give the helium. The puzzle here
is, how can that
equation ever lead to that phenomenon? But that’s still not exactly the
same. But here,
for a moment, that night, a couple of nights, I have a knowledge of a
law and I can make
predictions analogous to, but nowhere near as important or as vital and
marvelous as,
the Dirac equation or Maxwell equation. It’s just a small piece, but at
least I have the
moment when I’ve a new law, and could predict nature for a while. You
remember I said
that I was uncomfortable and told my sister I was unable to do work
anymore; I’m worn
out. And she said, “At least write it up,” and so on and so on. So I was
uncomfortable
that I wasn’t doing anything. And I suddenly got this thing. And then I
finally said:
“Well, I’ve done physics now. I’ve finally done some physics now, and I
don’t care if I
never do anything more.” I don’t mean I didn’t want to do anything more,
but I wasn’t
going to feel any more that I’ll be uncomfortable and unfulfilled, in
the sense that it was
an aim that I’d never fulfilled. I felt now that I’d fulfilled my
original dream of one day
discovering a law which was unknown. It turned out that that law had
been guessed by
Marshak, and perhaps by Salam and I don’t know who all, earlier than I
perhaps. But it
doesn’t make any difference. That doesn’t bother me. Maybe it’s
bothering Marshak
because all the glory comes to Gell-Mann and myself, and that may not be
fair for all I
know, because I don’t know the situation. I don’t read what the others
are writing and
doing. And I think it’s possible, although that would have to be studied
by an historian,
that those other guys got the bad end in this case, and the names that
are associated with
this thing are not in accordance with priorities. I don’t know. I
haven’t the slightest idea.
I was told this after I discovered it. So I don’t know, but it’s
possible. But that doesn’t
have anything to do with it. It’s not the name and the priority. It
could have been that
they discovered it. As long as I didn’t know they discovered it, for
that moment I knew
something and I had found a law, and I could make predictions about
nature, which is
the aim that I had. And the fact that somebody else was already making
the predictions,
unbeknownst to me, in no way takes the pleasure away, in any way. So
that was really a
great moment. I would like more moments like that, but I don’t have to
ask the gods for
everything.
Weiner:
You attach more personal satisfaction to this than to the quantum
electrodynamics
work?
95
Feynman:
Each of the jobs has its own satisfaction, of course, in its own way.
The quantum
electrodynamics was somehow of a wider importance. Well, I don’t know,
they’re all
different things. I got a real kick out of the helium, for a very
peculiar reason. In order to
do the helium problem, I had to reason about wave functions in many,
many particles,
and I couldn’t write anything. It was not possible to write equations. I
had to think the
whole thing through. The hardest part of the helium problem was done by
physical
reasoning alone, without being able to write anything. By just standing
— you know, I
remember kind of leaning against the kitchen sink, you see, and looking
at it, and just
thinking. And it was very, very interesting to be able to push through
that doggoned
thing without having stuff to write. That is, the real understanding of
why the other
excitations were higher in energies than the low ones. When I finally
wrote it up, I found
my argument somewhat slightly more quantitative, but it’s still a great
deal of what’s
called arm waving — but correct. There seems to be a thing that you
can’t think that
way, but you can think that way. Mathematics is supposed to be more
accurate. But the
thing that’s not fair — If you take another system instead of helium, a
system that’s
idealized, and then show perfectly, rigorously, that such and such a
phenomenon will
occur in the more idealized thing, you still don’t know whether it’s
going to occur in the
less idealized thing. So it’s no more rigorous, therefore, than to take
the less idealized
thing and use a less quantitatively precise argument, and see that it’s
going to happen.
But that’s not the fashion. The fashion is that it’s much better to take
a model, which is
to one side, and do it carefully and rigorously show the phenomenon,
than to take the
complex situation and, using the best reasoning you can, show the
phenomenon. My
style is the second one, but I don’t feel it’s worse than the first one,
because although the
first is rigorous, it’s on the wrong problem. There’s a famous joke
about the fellow who’s
looking all over in the grass, under a street light, for keys. He’s
looking, he’s looking. The
policeman comes along, “What are you looking for?” “I’m looking for my
keys.” “I’ll
help you,” says the policeman. They look around, they look around. So
finally the
policeman says, “Are you sure you lost the keys here?” “Oh, no,” he
says, “I didn’t lose
them here. I lost them halfway up the block, over there.” “So why are
you looking
here?” “The light’s better here.” So the same way — the light’s better
with the idealized
problem, and that can do something. But the question is, after I’ve
found this, do I know
about the other problem? Do I know what’s really going on? Anyway, in
the helium
problem, I got a great pleasure out of something which is hard work. I
never had to
think so hard, so abstractly. I had nothing to write. You see, while
you’re thinking, you’re
usually writing some things. Or else you think for a little while, then
you write some
things. You’re thinking mathematical expressions. But this was sheer
thinking. I can’t
explain how I did it — visualizations and picturing and so on, with very
little writing.
Weiner:
Well, you visualize a sheet, and —
96
Feynman:
Visualize, no, not a sheet of paper. Like that sheet — that was later.
But the hardest part
was to see why the excitations were higher in energy, which is the
second paper, I think.
And that was a sheet mental effort — and that was fun, for that reason,
you see. I mean,
there were various funs. Even the polaron was a big kick, because here
was a problem
they’re all struggling with, and it was just so easy. Plink, and I
invented a new scheme,
solved the problem so much better than anything before. It was just like
Superman, sort
of, kind of fun. You come in and you solve the whole thing with no
effort, you know.
And so on. Each one had a pleasure. I’m not Dirac or Maxwell; the thing
wasn’t that
important. Others have gotten it about the same time, and it wasn’t
necessary for me to
have lived in order for it to have been discovered. But aside from all
those things which
are not essential, I don’t feel that it makes any difference. I am
satisfied that I had the
pleasure of seeing how it feels to know something, to get the trick by
which — I don’t
know how it works — you can find out what nature’s going to do in
another situation,
one that’s different from the ones that you investigated. That’s not
some aspect where
it’s just more particles of the same kind. You just have arithmetic to
do. But it’s different
where the situation is fundamentally different than the things that you
tested.
Weiner:
And this is a different type of a situation. You’re not judging this by
its importance in the
field, whether the idea dominates the field, QED, it works etc., but
here — on its impact
on you personally.
Feynman:
That’s right. It’s my relation with nature, you might say, because it’s
much closer to this
strange phenomenon. It’s a strange phenomenon to me that by guessing the
question
should be simpler, you are able to predict something. It’s a weird
sensation.
Weiner:
Now, you didn’t pursue that, did you?
Feynman:
What, weak interactions?
Weiner:
That’s right, this business.
97
Feynman:
No. I wrote the paper, I calculated everything I could calculate. I
tried very hard to
understand the details of the weak interactions’ disintegrations, which
were puzzling in
many ways. And tried to use that as a clue to some symmetries among the
weak
interactions with Gell-Mann. We worked and we worked. We made many many
models,
and finally I kind of tired of the thing and decided there wasn’t any
simple symmetry.
Then somewhere in Switzerland I discovered it, a possible theory, which
I wrote up but
never published. Looking it over and thinking about it, I decided there
were too many
things that didn’t fit per things that did fit, and it probably wasn’t
true after all. Then I
got gradually tired of this problem and couldn’t think of any more
symmetries. But Gell-
Mann did not tire and got the final symmetry, which is the SU3 pattern,
which I didn’t
come close to as far as I know. I can’t find in my notes anything that
is like that, as far as
I remember.
Weiner:
When did Switzerland come up; how did you get there? I don’t want to
distract you from
this.
Feynman:
Well, I’m finished with that. That’s the beta decay.
Weiner:
You mentioned that you were in Switzerland. I was just wondering, was it
a trip?
Feynman:
No, that was a mixture of two purposes, because I was in Switzerland
twice and kind of
wandered back and forth — to Holland? No, yes, no — yes. No. Yes. I went
to
Switzerland first for two reasons. One was, there was a meeting there. I
think it was the
High Energy Conference, this time at Geneva. Yes. Definitely. And then
later in the year,
there was to be a conference called Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy.
Gell-Mann and I or
perhaps just me had been invited to give a talk at the Peaceful Uses of
Atomic Energy
Conference. I wrote some kind of an article or paper for it. So there is
another published
thing that’s probably not on your list, on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic
Energy, Princeton,
195(?) — I don’t know what — the same year that there was a Geneva
conference. That
year the Rochester conference was in Geneva. I wrote on the weak
interactions, and
someone in the State Department asked that Murray’s name be on it also,
in order to
impress. This was very unfortunate altogether. I don’t mind Murray’s
name on it, that’s
not the point, but this kind of crap. They call up — so many Russians
are going to talk
98
about this thing. They have to have more Americans talk about something
scientific. We
have to have some kind of balance, and it would be better if both your
names were on
because it looks better. It’s just crazy. Absolutely crazy. Anyway, I
did give the talk to the
Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy Commission meeting, and it contains some
new ideas
that both Gell-Mann and I had worked out together. I wrote it, but I had
Gell-Mann’s
ideas too, so there was nothing wrong with putting both our names on it.
But there was
some complication. I can’t remember the details. They asked me to do
something funny
with the paper. They wanted to get more names on it — something fishy —
this stuff
about propaganda mixing up with the science, you know. It was published
in the
Proceedings of the International — It’s very amusing that, when I was
there during the
first period, I went to the Geneva Conference on high energy physics.
After that I was
hanging around there for a while, and I thought I’d go on a tour of the
Palais de Nations
or something, whatever it is, the United Nations Palace. And when I was
on a tour, I
didn’t even think, you know, for a minute that I was going to come back
here and talk. It
just escaped — just didn’t come to me. And I walk into this, and the guy
explains that
this is the big symposium and so on, you see, and he shows us this room.
There were
great doors that opened, and there were red carpets running along the
sides. There were
loudspeakers, simultaneously translating things, a dais where you stand
up with several
layers of things, and then this big thing where the guy stands in the
middle and lectures.
It was really very impressive, you know, and I just thought to myself:
Boy wouldn’t it be
something to stand in front of here and give a lecture! So crazy. You
know, I thought —
Boy! And then I suddenly began to remember that I was going to come here
to give a
lecture at the Peaceful Uses, see. So I asked the guy, I said, “Listen,
there’s going to be a
conference on Peaceful Uses. Where is the lecture going to be? Where are
they going to
have things?” “Oh,” he said, “the building’s out there, they’re going to
have exhibits and
so on.” I said, “But the main sessions, the full sessions, where are
they going to be?” He
says, “In that room.” And it was a big surprise. I was so taken aback by
it, I said, “Oh,
I’m going to talk there!” I always dress comfortably, and not just to
look good, you know
— dressed with no tie, just a shirt, dirty pants, you see. And I was on
this tour. So when
I say, “I’m going to talk there,” it was incredible. “Oh, indeed?” says
this fellow,
“indeed? Well, we’ll look forward to hearing you,” you know. Then I
realized, how
stupid, I shouldn’t have said anything, but I was so surprised -– “Oh,”
I said, “that’s
where I’m going to talk, later!”
Weiner:
You did a paper with Gell-Mann. You worked with him on certain things.
Feynman:
Yeah, we did a lot of work together on various things.
Weiner:
99
For example — well, I’ll get something pretty recently — l964. So we’ll
skip that for a
while. There was something —
Feynman:
I met my present wife in Geneva at that time.
Weiner:
That’s interesting — on that trip? This was, what year? We can properly
date that here.
Feynman:
Well, I can’t tell you.
Weiner:
That’s an important event.
Feynman:
I met her at the beach in Geneva.
Weiner:
When were you married?
Feynman:
Some years ago. My boy is four. It must have been five years ago, six
years ago.
Weiner:
I’d expect — that fits the timing pretty well.
Feynman:
It was about two years earlier that I had met her. What else you got?
Weiner:
There’s another paper — I don’t know if it’s of any importance or not —
that’s done
with some students, with Vernon and with Hellwarth. Were they your
students?
100
Feynman:
Sort of. I don’t know. Maybe one of them was and the other wasn’t.
Weiner:
“Geometrical Representations of Schrodinger Equation for Solving Maser
Problems.”
Feynman:
Yeah, well, around that time the maser was discovered, and the laser,
and so on, and
there were a number of technical problems. This was when quantum
mechanics was
entering electrical engineering, in a way. And so there were some
fellows — Hellwarth,
Vernon, and some man from the electrical engineering department whose
name I don’t
remember — who wanted to know more about it, to understand the quantum
mechanics
as applied to these things. How did the maser work, and how did the
laser work, and so
on? Maser, not the laser. (It hadn’t been invented.) So I gave a little
series of lectures to
them, in which I explained all the equations that they were finding in
the various papers,
and how to calculate things. I just used the model of a two state
system. I used the
electron as an example of two states for which we know how to work
things out.
Hellwarth thought that that view was a useful one and might help other
people, and
suggested that we publish that. So they wrote it up and published that
idea. And he
showed how various of the formulas that he found in other places could
easily be seen,
more or less, by using this model of a spinning electron. But it was
really a minor, very
minor point. Anybody could have thought of that. That’s nothing.
Weiner:
Then, a few years later, in ‘63, you did work with Vernon again on
theory of the general
quantum system.
Feynman:
Yes — the general theory of the lasers and the masers and so on. I
always do everything
by path integrals, so I was giving these lectures explaining things by
path integrals and
proving one item after another. I hadn’t followed, never did follow the
literature, to find
out how many of these formulas were derived by other methods, and
whether this
particular method has any advantages or not. But Vernon I think did a
thesis with me on
the theory. I outlined how to do it. In fact I, as usual, worked out
most of the things
independently, and he just went through again to kind of check them. I
knew it was
soluble this way. So we got several formulas in the general theory of
the linear systems.
See, the connection of quantum mechanics to classical mechanics is
involved there,
when the thing gets bigger and bigger. At low enough intensities, a
radio cavity resonator
101
is a quantum system; at higher levels it’s a classical system, and the
relationship between
the two is worked out in detail in those things, and so on. So you can
get formulas that
describe the behavior of these systems in any level range. At lower
levels it approximates
quantum theory and higher levels it approximates classical theory.
Although it’s low
enough level that it’s quantum mechanical in some sense, it’s not a
quantum mechanical
system in the ordinary sense. It is not simple — a big cavity, with lots
of electrons, with
wires sticking in, with detectors tied on, with antennas hooked on it.
Nevertheless, it’s
working so low in intensity that quantum mechanics is necessary, but not
because of the
quanta. Really, it’s the quantum mechanics of BIG electric circuits, so
to speak —
microscopically big, microscopically energetic. It’s interesting. I’m
sure that other people
have done it by density matrices or by something. But I don’t know the
other ways, so
we worked this out. All the equations and theory of this stuff, in this
particular manner
were worked out and published. Then another man named Wells, using the
operator
calculus that I had invented, found that he could do it even much
simpler. And he
published another paper that’s not on your list. I don’t think my name
is on that one, but
the inspiration is very closely related to my work. So it’s connected,
but the same
problem is solved in an even more brilliant, simple, easy to understand
way. But I don’t
know, because this field is a little outside of my own, whether those
papers are worth
anything, whether people need them or need to read them, whether they
contain any
equation that isn’t anywhere else (which I doubt), and whether the other
people can’t
derive all this stuff much easier. The conclusions are simple. So
there’s nothing
complicated there, and I doubt that there’s anything special. I don’t
know. I don’t know
the field.
Weiner:
There’s one other paper, and I think at one time we discussed this off
the tape, that
appears to put you in a biological field. It’s in 1962: “Mapping
Experiments with R
Mutants and Bacteriophage.” Was this a question where this group asked
your
cooperation on a certain aspect of a problem?
Feynman:
Oh, no. No.
Weiner:
You remember the paper?
Feynman:
Yes. I got interested. I’ve always been interested in biology. I’d been
traveling every
summer somewhere, and I thought this time, where am I going to go? And I
said, the
hell with it, I don’t feel like traveling. Instead of traveling, I’ll do
biology experiments. I’ll
102
go into a different field, instead of going into a different country. So
I went down to the
biology lab and told them I wanted to help them out. I had expected that
I would just be
like a lab assistant: you know, do routine measurements for them, and so
on. I went
down to Viereck’s lab and they said, “No, you can’t do routine things.
You must learn to
do things right. You do some research, and we’ll treat you like a
graduate student and
show you how.” So they taught me how to plate bacteria and such from
pipettes. It
didn’t take very long to learn the techniques. And then they assigned me
a problem.
They suggested a problem, just as they would for a graduate student,
having to do with
phage research. I started to work on the problem, and I made some
discoveries. Those
discoveries are not described very well in there, because that’s just a
mapping. They
needed some of the mutants that I had as just a mapping of where certain
mutants are,
and they have to mention some of the mutants and the distance they are
from other
mutants, which is part of this thing that I did. But I discovered some
kind of special
suppressive mutants which, it turned out later, was worthwhile. I mean,
I didn’t follow it
up, and I didn’t publish it, which I’m very unhappy about. I was urged
by everybody to
write it up because it was worthwhile, but somehow I never got around to
it. And so I
never wrote it up, which is too bad, because those mutants were
interesting. They were
unusual; they did funny things, and I had discovered them. Later it
turned out that other
people discovered them, and they found out that they had a different
interpretation as to
what they are than the interpretation that I had. They made real
advances. But the
mutants themselves of this character were important in future biological
research. And I
knew they were very interesting and unusual, but I didn’t write it up.
And I did a
tremendous amount of work. I mean, I was very careful about all the
experiments, and I
did lots and lots. It was good biological research, as far as what the
other guys tell me.
Nothing wrong with it. It was real; I discovered something. I did a lot
of work to do it.
Weiner:
Was this one summer?
Feynman:
One summer. Then I had a sabbatical leave, and I spent the year doing
work (or nearly, I
didn’t spend that much time) on microscomes. But I never did get
material under
control. It involved grinding, a grinding operation, and I gradually
realized that this has
to be done in some other way that’s a lot more under control. I couldn’t
get the things to
repeat very well. I got tired of it because I was trying to do
gravitation, the quantum
theory of gravitation, and felt responsibilities to physics. So then I
finally stopped.
Weiner:
Where did you do this sabbatical year?
103
Feynman:
Here.
Weiner:
Oh, I see, instead of a vacation.
Feynman:
Yes.
Weiner:
Do you find any basic difference or similarities between so-called
biological research and
physical research?
Feynman:
The work I did was with viruses and microscomes, which means taking
apart the bacteria
and so on. I have never done much experimental physics, except when I
was a kid in a
laboratory. However, if you want to make a comparison, I would say the
following
struck me very strongly. The general methods of criticizing experiment,
and
understanding when a thing is really known and when it is not really
known, are almost
the same. So I came with a talent of knowing how to criticize an
experiment and
knowing what the hell I was doing, and so on. The physics knowledge is
infinitely useful.
You see, everything is made out of matter, and so there’s an awful lot
of physics in what
you’re doing. I understand immediately how a centrifuge works, why this
is proportional
to that, and I don’t have to learn that double the time is twice as
much, that it goes down
faster near the outside, and that the formula’s so and so. I understand
everything about
the centrifuge and how it works and how it selects the particles, and
why it may change. I
understand each kind of measuring equipment. I understand completely
what’s involved
in the ultraviolet absorption method of determining how much DNA there
is in the
tubs, or RNA, and so on. In other words, the equipment that does
measuring — like
wave length scale — I know what it means. Everything is clear.
Furthermore, as far as
what’s probably going on molecularly and so on, it’s also clear — like
what the effect of
temperature is going to be. I don’t mean that the biology is clear,
because there’s a
complexity involved. There’s a whole lot of stuff that’s hard to
explain, and there’s a
tremendous amount of junk that I know immediately. Also, such things as
how much
statistics I’ve got to take so that the pluses and minuses are less than
the uncertainties
and lots of other things, are perfectly obvious to me. That’s a very
great advantage. So
there’s a great deal that goes over from the one science to the other,
and the most
important thing that goes over is the character of the science, the
critical character. It’s
very very much the same. The sources of dirt and the sources of error
are physically
104
different. But you can still get an idea: does it make sense or doesn’t
it make sense?
Weiner:
You felt at home, then.
Feynman:
I certainly did. Yes. I had no trouble with it.
Weiner:
There’s a chance that you might be dipping into that field again?
Feynman:
I don’t know. I don’t know. It was fun. It was a tremendous amount of
fun, and it was
good. I had to learn from experience. I learned several things from
experience. If I did
more research, I would do much better research, more directly and more
satisfactorily.
Although it is characteristic in biology, because of the complexity of
the situation, that
one makes operations which are more or less crude, like grinding the
things, and not
always exactly the same. That’s a weakness. It would be worthwhile if
you could get the
conditions under control. It’s very difficult. The one thing that’s
harder in biology (I
think, probably, I don’t know because I haven’t done enough physics
experiments) than
in physics, is to get the things to repeat; i.e., to get everything
under control. To get
everything under control is harder. If you look into the microscope at
the bacteria, for
example, that you’re using, and in which the viruses are growing, you
see they’re all
different sizes and in different stages of growth. They’re wiggling
different ways — it’s a
hell of a mess. Well, now, you can’t control each bacterium, but you
could control the
average. You must make everything identical. It’s hard to repeat the
experiment.
Weiner:
Well, it was an interesting interlude.
Feynman:
Yes, it was fun.
Weiner:
I was thinking that perhaps now, if you feel up to it, might be a good
time to talk about
the Lectures on Physics.
105
Feynman:
Let’s see, have we got all the physics now? I guess we’ve got all the
physics, all the
accomplishments.
Weiner:
The major things. There are books that come out of this. There’s
something that follows
the Lectures, and that is a paper with Gell-Mann and Zweig.
Feynman:
Yeah. Well, in recent times I haven’t been working too well. That is to
say, when I work,
I work all right, but I don’t work enough at a time; just little bits
and pieces of half-
worked-out stuff. I worked on the stars and the collapse of stars, on
the quantum theory
of gravity, and so on, helping other people, usually by putting them on
the right track.
Weiner:
When someone mentions a problem, you get interested in it, and —
Feynman:
Yes, and then they would be cockeyed. They have something mixed up, and
I point out
to them it’s mixed up. If you calculate you get this answer — then they
calculate, they get
that answer. They publish, and they thank me for pointing out that
they’d get that
answer. But I had to calculate it to find that. Another example is in
the high energy
physics. There were a lot of discussions of the different groups and the
different
symmetries. Then I discussed it with Murray and with other people and,
sometimes if I
understood a thing well enough, I go home and try to figure it out. For
example, all of a
sudden Murray and Dave get an idea. It’s ok; they understand the new
thing, some new
theory. But I go home and I figure out that it’s cockeyed, that it
doesn’t work, that it
violates some principle of conservation of probability that they didn’t
notice. So I point
it out to them, and they thank me very much, and they don’t publish it.
Or we discuss
some symmetry. Now, in this particular thing, Murray was developing an
idea, and I had
a little, but not much, to do with it. But I did discuss it with him,
and in fact had
suggested some aspects of it. But I really did not completely understand
what he was
doing. But while he was discussing it, I would suggest, “Look at this.
It would be like
this; if this is like that, then that’s like this,” and make some
suggestions, and we worked
together, somewhat. And Zweig was doing independently something related
to it. I must
say, I didn’t really understand that paper very well. It was written in
a very great hurry by
Murray, and he asked me if I wanted to get my name on it — if it was
right, you know,
to put the name on it. I had discussed it with him, and much of the
discussion influenced
106
him, and so on. So my first reaction was: Well, no, I’m perfectly
willing for you to use
my influence. It’s all right; I don’t need my name on it. On the other
hand, I was getting
depressed by having not done anything for so many years. So I made what
I would
consider now an error. I don’t mean that I think the paper’s bad or
good. That’s not the
question. I still don’t even know. I don’t even know whether what they
now know is in
there. I didn’t understand it very well. I didn’t check everything that
was written. I had a
principle that everything that I wrote, I should understand inside out;
that there was just
a little bit less written than what I knew; and that whatever I wrote
would be right. I
didn’t like the papers that somebody would write; suggesting an idea
which in three
months they find is cockeyed. And there was just a possibility that that
was such a paper,
because I didn’t check everything — in and out, back and forth — like I
did with the
beta decay. But he came to me when I was eating lunch and asked me if I
wanted my
name on it. They were getting it out right away, because it was a big
hurry.
Weiner:
It was sent to Physical Review Letters.
Feynman:
Right — it’s a big hurry. They’re writing it this morning, and do I want
my name on it?
And as I ate lunch I decided: Yeah, because I haven’t done anything, and
it would be
nice… That was a terrible thing. That was stupid. Then I looked at the
paper, and I
asked a number of questions to see if it was likely to be right. But I
should have done the
work myself. And I decided, OK, to put my name on it. I don’t know
whether it’s right
or not, but I must say that I put my name on that, and I did so little
in it that it isn’t
really my work.
Weiner:
Let me ask you some —
Feynman:
It isn’t really my work, and I’ve felt uncomfortable about that, since
it was through
weakness, a human weakness, that I got my name on that. I did a little,
a small fraction
of the work, and it wasn’t deserving to have my name on it. It was dumb.
Weiner:
During the period immediately preceding that, you were involved in the
special series of
lectures which were then published and widely circulated.
107
Feynman:
The Feynman Lectures on Physics. Do you want to talk about that?
Weiner:
I think it’s appropriate, because this was a very major activity in this
period.
Feynman:
Yeah. It’s interesting, now that I think about it, that since that was a
major activity in that
period, I’m complaining I’m not doing any research. I’m really crazy.
People have
pointed out to me now that it’s really quite silly of me to feel that
I’m not doing anything
in these years, because that thing is something. But I still don’t feel
it that way, because
when you’re young you dedicate yourself to some ideal, that you’re going
to discover
things in physics, and if you do something else it’s hard for you to
rationalize that it
should satisfy anybody. It’s just that I was teaching a class. So
anyhow, the story of those
lectures is the following. There was a discussion by some group, of
which I was not a
member, that they ought to revamp the physics course, because many of
the students
who were pretty good, who were taking physics, were complaining that
after studying it
for a year or two, all they were doing was pith balls and inclined
planes. They had heard
so much when they were in high school of relativity and strange
particles and wonders of
the world, and they would see nothing of the wonders of the world until
they were
graduate students. And this was very difficult, and they were trying to
revamp the physics
course. So they had worked out some kind of a syllabus for it and so on,
and the
question was, who was to give it? I don’t know how they discussed among
themselves,
but anyway, Sands came over here and he talked me into giving the
course. However, I
threw away the syllabus. You know, I decided to give it my own way, of
course. But I got
the general idea of what was involved. They wanted me to teach the
freshman lectures.
They wanted to revamp the course. It used to not have any main lectures
by a main
lecturer, but they used to have sections of teaching by graduate
students in different
sections. The only thing they ever came together for then was an
optional sort of cultural
lecture that was not directly related to the course, once a week on
Fridays, or maybe
once every two weeks on Fridays.
Weiner:
Some historical thing, perhaps?
Feynman:
Well, it would be different things. I would often be invited to talk
there, and I would talk
about relativity. It was not part of their course. Sometimes people
would talk about
something that was directly part of their course, but it wasn’t
organized together. Now
108
they’re going to do a new laboratory. They were going to cook up a new
lab, and they
were inventing new experiments to go with the lab. They were going to
re-design it, so
that there would be at least two lectures a week given by a main
professor, and then
some recitation sections that graduate students would pay attention to.
And would I give
the lectures? See. They had money from the Ford Foundation for this
revamping.
There’s a lot of money for changing the world around these days. So I
said, “Ok.” I
accepted the challenge for one year, and I tried to make a course that
required giving two
lectures a week.
Weiner:
Didn’t you have to drop all other work, all other teaching?
Feynman:
I did, in fact. I can hardly believe it, but my wife tells me that I was
working essentially
day and night, 16 hours a day, all the time. I was down here all the
time, worrying about
these, working on these lectures, because I not only had to prepare the
material, I also
had to prepare the lecture so it was a good lecture, if you know what I
mean. I had the
idea — I got a kind of principle, a number of principles. The first was
that I wouldn’t
teach them anything that I had to teach over again because it was wrong
unless I pointed
out that it was wrong. In other words, if Newton’s laws are only
approximate, and
they’re not good in quantum mechanics and they’re not good in
relativity, I start out by
saying that so that they know where they are. In other words, there
always should be
some kind of a map. In fact, I even thought of making some sort of a
great map of
things with their interconnections, so we see where we were. I thought
that one of the
troubles with all the courses in physics was that they just said: You
learn all this, you
learn all that, and when you come out the other end you’ll understand
the connections.
But there’s no map, “guide to the perplexes,” you see. So I want to make
a map. But it
turns out it’s not a feasible design. I mean, I just never made such a
map. The other
thing is, I wanted to have in it things that would be enough for a good
man to chew on,
and then also that the average guy should understand. So I tried to
invent. Let me go
over the principles. The first was, I’d never introduce anything that
was not exactly right
without explaining that it wasn’t, and what changed next time. The
second thing was —
I looked at books, you see, and I began to realize great weaknesses. For
example, like
they were teaching in the same book F equals MA, and a little bit later
that the frictional
forces, the constant of friction times the normal force… as if they were
of the same
caliber and the same significance. They’re so different in quality and —
you know —
nothing is made of it. So that was what the first principle was. The
second principle was:
That which is supposed to be understandable, and that which is not
supposed to be
understandable from what you’ve already said, should be made clear.
Because I would
find in books that they would give all of a sudden, say, the formula for
the frequency of
an AC circuit. That was supposed to be more advanced. They can’t derive
it now, but
they wouldn’t say, “You aren’t going to be able to understand this
formula at this level
109
with the reasoning that has just proceeded, but it’s an added thing.” In
other words,
what’s being added in, and what should have come from the other thing?
Even if it
could have come from the other, but you don’t make the argument, you
should say it. I
always say, “This is a possible deduction, more or less as follows, but
we haven’t tried to
deduce it from that.” Or, “This is an independent idea that comes from
another place,
you see, and you can’t deduce it, so don’t worry.” A few little
principles like that. Then
the problem was to make lectures which would be OK for the average
student, and yet
have stuff for the advanced student. Then I got an idea, when I was
planning these
lectures. I would have a cube in the front of the lecture hall which had
different colored
faces, so that when something was only for the fun of it, for the more
advanced student
to get him interested, but wasn’t really an essential part of the
course, it would be one
color face. You see? When there was something that was so basic that it
was absolutely
necessary to understand for the whole of physics, and everybody should
try their best to
understand this thing — another color face, and so on. A color face to
indicate the
importance, the position, of the different subjects. Because what I was
worried about
was that all the students would try to learn all this junk, and if they
do that, then I
haven’t got stuff for the advanced student. You can’t do it. It’s just
impossible, to have
stuff for the advanced student without possibly confusing the stupidest
student or the
less advanced student. So I had this cube idea. But I gave that up as
being gimmicky and
instead I would write at all lectures summaries (which are no longer
extant) on the
blackboard of the central items which needed to be understood. Anything
else that
wasn’t in the summary was just for the fun of it. But those don’t exist
anymore. Finally,
let’s see — I thought of some other things while I was talking. I don’t
know. So, then I
started to give the lectures. And at the very beginning, the first thing
I wanted to do was
get all the students together. At a number of lectures, people don’t
understand the logic
at the beginning. The real logic of the beginning is, get all these kids
from high school to
come approximately to the same rough position. For instance, I would
talk about
everything being made out of atoms — not because I think they don’t know
that, but
because I want those who don’t know it to know it. I can’t say that, you
see, so I tell it in
such a way that the ones who already know it are excited by it, because
it’s a new way of
looking at it, while the ones who don’t know it can just catch onto it,
to the level that I
need. And so on. So the first few lectures are to bring everybody
together. Also, these
lectures were lectures I had given other places, the beginning lectures
especially, so that I
could have time to prepare the later ones, you see. And finally — oh,
another principle, a
very important principle; I wanted each lecture to be able to stand by
itself. I didn’t think
it was a good idea to have a lecture and say, “Well, the hour is up; we
will continue this
discussion next time,” or “Last time when we left off, we were doing”
this, that and the
other thing. “Now let us continue.” So, instead of that, I wanted to
make believe to
myself that each lecture was somehow or other an isolated masterpiece,
you see, of
lecturing, in which you had a beginning, and introduction, and you had a
conclusion with
some drama. So each of the lectures were like that, with some minor
exceptions. There
were one or two places where I couldn’t do it, where I continued the two
lectures
together or something like that — but that was another principle. I’m
just telling you the
guides that made those things. Finally, my main interest is in physics,
and in organizing
110
material. I love to organize the material, and to think about how it
goes together, and to
discover a new way of looking at something, and how I can explain it and
so on. And
I’m not the kind of a teacher who’s interested really in the student as
an individual. I
mean, I’m not worried about: this guy’s married and he’s trying to get
his degree, and all
these complications. I tried my best to teach the student more or less
as the abstract
student, with imaginary properties — mixed, mixed, there were many
different kinds of
abstract students — but no any particular individuals. The subject is
the center of my
interest in all cases — the subject, not the student but the subject.
So, you want to know
how I feel about them [the lectures]. What else can I say about them?
They’re all
published. But I’m trying to explain to you how I feel, myself, about
them, and what I
thought I was trying to do.
Weiner:
Did you get any sense of feedback while you were doing it?
Feynman:
No. None whatever because I had no way to know what was happening.
Because I
didn’t have any recitation sections and I didn’t have questions at the
end of the lecture.
Any questions were supposed to go into the recitation sections. So there
was zero
feedback, except that there were some exams in which people made up
problems. They
gave them problems, and they would try to write the answers, in certain
exam weeks, you
see. And they were so atrocious — as far as I was concerned — they were
so zero that I
really, in a certain sense, felt discouraged throughout the entire
program. Not
discouraged to the point of not keeping right on going the way I was
going, but in the
feeling throughout that it wasn’t working, that it’s useless — but never
mind, I’ll do it
anyway. I mean, it’s the only way I know how to do it, damn it. But it
doesn’t work.
Weiner:
How about the people who were directly in contact, with the recitations?
Feynman:
People who were directly in contact would tell me that I was
underestimating them, and
that it wasn’t as bad as I thought. But I never believed them and still
don’t.
Weiner:
Don’t you think that this type of presentation, the effectiveness of it,
is difficult to
measure in a traditional examination?
111
Feynman:
Of course it is. But let’s just assume that you’re getting somewhere.
But what else do you
do? I mean, you asked me what my reaction was. It may be difficult, but
I expected them
to do better on the simple questions than they were doing. In other
words, a person who
couldn’t do what they apparently couldn’t do was certainly not
understanding what I was
talking about. That’s the way I felt about it.
Weiner:
How long did you do this, three years?
Feynman:
I did this for a year, and then they started to work on me for the
second year. And I said,
“I prefer to do the first year over again. This time I want to make up
problems that go
with the material, and to make some improvements, but mainly to make up
problems to
go with the material, so that it would really teach it.” And to make
some improvements
of things I didn’t care for. Then they worked on me, and I’m glad they
did — in some
way, anyway. They said, “Look, nobody’s ever going to do this again. We
need this
second year.” I didn’t like to do the second year, because I didn’t
think I had great ideas
about how to present the second year. I felt that I didn’t have a good
idea on how to do
lectures on that. But, you see, in these challenges that had existed
before about lectures,
they had challenged me to explain relativity, challenged me to explain
quantum
mechanics, and challenged me to explain the relation of mathematics to
physics, the
conservation of energy. I answered every challenge. But there was one
challenge which
nobody asked, which I had set myself, because I didn’t know how to do
it. I’ve never
succeeded yet. Now I think I know how to do it. I haven’t done it, but
I’ll do it someday.
And that is this: How would you explain Maxwell’s equations? How would
you explain
the laws of electricity and magnetism to a layman, almost a layman, a
very intelligent
person, in an hour lecture? How do you do it? I’ve never solved it. OK,
so give me two
hours of lecture. But it should be done in an hour lecture, somehow — or
two hours.
Anyhow, I’ve now cooked up a much better way of presenting the
electrodynamics, a
much more original and much more powerful way than is in that book. But
at that time I
had no new way, and I complained that I had nothing extra to contribute
for myself. But
they said, “Do it anyway,” and they talked me into it, so I did. When I
planned it, I was
expected to teach electrodynamics, and then to teach a subject which
would really be all
the different branches of physics, using the same equation — like you
use a diffusion
equation for diffusion, for temperature, for lots of things, or the wave
equation for
sound, for light, and so on. In other words, the second half would have
been something
like mathematical methods of physics, but with many physics examples, so
I’m teaching
physics at the same time as the mathematics. I would teach Fourier
transform,
differential equations, and so on. It wouldn’t look like that, though.
It wouldn’t be
organized the usual way. It would be in terms of subjects, the point
being that the
112
equations are the same in so many different fields. So the moment you
deal with an
equation, you ought to show all the fields that it comes from, instead
of just talking
about the equation. So I was going to do that. But then I had another
possibility. Maybe
I could teach quantum mechanics to the sophomores — nobody expects that
to be
done, that would be a miracle. And I had a crazy upside down way of
presenting
quantum mechanics, absolutely inside out, in which everything that was
advanced would
come first, and everything that was elementary would come, in the
conventional sense,
last. And I told these guys about that, and they kept working on me.
They said I had to
do it, that the mathematical thing that I was talking about, other
people may someday
do, but that this thing would be so unique, and they knew that I would
never go for
another year. I must do this unique thing, you see — even if it kills
the kids, they can’t
learn it, and it’s no good. I don’t know what the situation is,
actually, whether it’s
worthwhile or not. I should try it. So I did. And that’s volume 3 on
quantum mechanics.
But volumes 2 and 3 were really one year, just like volume 1 was.
Weiner:
This represents two full years that you put in.
Feynman:
That’s right.
Weiner:
What years were they? Volumes 1 and 2 were published in ‘64. I don’t
have volume 1 in
front of me. Well, it probably tells you in the preface.
Feynman:
Right. That’s why I’m looking in the preface.
Weiner:
It was published in ‘65.
Feynman:
‘64. ‘65. This is volume what, 3? Yes that’s the wrong volume.
Weiner:
Volume 2 says, “These are the lectures in physics that I gave last year
and the year
113
before.” I’d say this is volume 2.
Feynman:
Well, that’s no good. It’s volume 1 that we need the copyright on.
Weiner:
Well, it says freshman and sophomore.
Feynman:
I know what it says, but the preface was written…
Weiner:
Oh, here it is, June, ‘63.
Feynman:
Ok — that’s when the preface was written.
Weiner:
Last year and the year before.
Feynman:
Ok. Good.
Weiner:
So you started in ’61 — no, last year meant ‘62 and ‘63.
Feynman:
I started in ‘61.
Weiner:
No, last year meant last academic year. You were writing in ‘63.
114
Feynman:
Right. Well, one is ‘61-‘62, and the next is ‘62-‘63.
Weiner:
I see. That fits very nicely into this —
Feynman:
Hole.
Weiner:
Way of accounting for time.
Feynman:
Except for ‘63.
Weiner:
Sounds like I’m your bookkeeper, you know.
Feynman:
Right. OK. So that’s what I was doing.
Weiner:
And since then, of course, as you mentioned yesterday, you have better
feelings about
it…
Feynman:
Somewhat.
Weiner:
Because of their use beyond Caltech.
Feynman:
115
Well, I haven’t yet, but people have pointed out I ought to. And I may
be gradually
coming around to understanding that. But what I insisted that I was
doing, from the
beginning, was teaching this particular group of students, and that’s
all that I could do. I
kept saying, “You cannot live beyond the grave. You teach these
students, that’s all it’s
going to be, and there won’t be any way to get this to anybody else.” I
think it’s roughly
true. If I listen to the lectures that other people give, on the basis
of these books, I see all
kinds of flaws, errors, weaknesses, and distortion. And it is true that
you can’t live
beyond the grave. But there must be people living who aren’t listening
to the lectures of
some professor, who are sitting just reading the book and thinking for
themselves. They
must get something out of it. So if I keep some hope that that’s worth
something to
them, maybe I can feel better about the whole thing. I think that, in
regard to the
particular students that I was really aiming at, which was my avowed
purpose that I’d set
— I wasn’t caring about the books or anything, I was only caring about
the students — I
think that the result was nowhere near worth the effort.
Weiner:
Let’s take a break for a minute now…
Weiner:
We’re resuming after a dinner break. The marathon continues.
Feynman:
Well, you said you wanted to hear about my experiences in Brazil, about
teaching, during
the ten months I was there that time and since.
Weiner:
That’s right, and your total impression of science education in South
America.
Feynman:
I learned when I was there, during the ten months, very slowly,
something which I found
almost incredible. I found out that their teaching is entirely by rote,
entirely by rote, that
they don’t know anything about what the physics means. When I first came
there, I saw
children of 11 years old and so on getting physics books, much more than
in our
country, and it seemed that everybody was studying physics. I was
teaching a class in
electricity and magnetism, sort of an intermediate class in a
university, and I had a lot of
trouble with the class that I couldn’t understand. They made excuses
that they weren’t
used to my methods, and this and that, and they didn’t do the homework
problems for
one reason or another. Sometimes I’d ask them a question and they’d give
me the answer
immediately, very neatly, you know. Sometimes I’d ask what I thought was
the same
116
question, and nobody knew the answer. Gradually I figured out what it
was, particularly
by one experience. Having talked about polarized light and polaroid and
so on, and
having gotten them to realize that when the polaroid’s were set so as to
make them
opaque, their axes were at right angles — in other words parallel — I
asked them if they
could tell me, by any method, in which direction the electric field was
passing through a
particular piece of polaroid; in other words, absolute axes. And of
course they couldn’t
think of it right away. Then I said, “Well, look. You’ve got the light
reflected from the
sea out there, from the water in the bay.” That didn’t do any good, and
so on. Finally I
said, “Have you ever heard of Brewster’s angle?” And they said, “Yes,
sir — light is
reflected from — substance of —.” I can’t do it like they did it, but
they quickly said the
law and something about the tangent of the angle of index refraction, or
something.
Then I said to them, “Which way is the Polaroid; parallel to the plane
of incidence?”
“Perpendicular to plane of incidence, Sir,” was the answer. I said, “All
right, then. So the
light that’s coming from the sea is polarized,” you know. “Light
reflected from a material
with an index end is 100 percent polarized, perpendicular to the plane
of incidence when
the index, the angle of incidence is equal to the angle of tangent of
the index,” or some
such thing. They knew that. So I said, “Well, then, look at the water
again, and look at it
through the Polaroid.” And they turned the Polaroid, and they said,
“Gee. It gets dark.”
So I realized that although they had told me what Brewster’s angle was,
they didn’t know
that when they looked through polaroid at water reflecting from the
surface, it would
look dark. And so I gradually realized that, although they told me what
Brewster’s angle
was, they hadn’t the slightest idea what the words meant. And incredible
though it may
seem, I found out by further looking into this that they knew all these
laws by memory,
and understood nothing. They didn’t even know that after they figured
out the direction
of a ray of light, and they put their eye where that ray was, that
that’s the direction they
have to look. And so on. In other words, nothing was related to any
observation
whatever. Whatever! It’s hard to believe the zero that was involved.
Also, to investigate
further, I looked into a lot of things. I listened to other professors
who were supposedly
good, like in the engineering school. I heard how they gave a lecture.
And the professor
gave a lecture something like this: (only it was in Portuguese) “Two
bodies are
considered equivalent —” and so on, with pauses in between each phrase,
and the
students were writing it down, exactly. When he got finished saying the
sentence, slowly,
with pauses, he said it all together: “Two bodies are considered
equivalent, that equal
torques will produce equal acceleration.” He was talking about equal
moments of inertia,
but it wasn’t at all clear, just the sentence. He said it quickly, and
they checked that they’d
written it down. They were taking dictation, and writing it exactly. But
it was unclear. It
was perfectly obvious to me that if this was an introduction to the
moment of inertia, it
was incomprehensible to the human mind. What kind of equivalence was not
defined, or
why. Then there was a formula for the moment of inertia, for no good
reason. There
was none of the usual talk: “Well, let’s see — you have to swing the
object around. You
do the same thing further out, and it’s harder to get it going than if
it’s nearer in —” Or
any such discussion, in terms of any experience. I asked a student,
afterwards, “What are
you doing?” “I’m taking notes on the lecture.” “Then what do you do with
them?” “I
study them,” he said. “What do you study for?” “The exam.” “Well, what’s
the exam
117
like?” “Well, this one’s easy. You can always kind of guess what they’re
going to ask. For
example, they’re going to ask, ‘When are two masses considered
equivalent?’” I said,
“What is this?” “I don’t know.” He looks, and he reads that sentence
out. Now, see, it
was possible, I realized, to pass the examination, and to learn and
everything, and to go
through the courses, without ever knowing a word of what you were
talking about. I also
went to the examinations for students qualifying to get into the
engineering school. They
were difficult examinations. And I took the best student, and after they
had asked some
questions which he answered satisfactorily, I asked the questions in a
different language.
As an example, they asked him how light is altered in going at an angle
through a thick,
plane sheet of material with an index? He said it was displaced from its
original direction;
it came out parallel to the way it went in, which was quite correct.
When asked how far it
was displaced, he was able to set it up and do it, which was far beyond
the usual. But
when I asked him later, I said, “Suppose this book is a piece of glass,
and I’m looking at
this other object through it, another book,” and I tilt the glass, “what
will I see?” He
said, “You’ll see the image of the other book go up at an angle twice
the angle that you
tilt the glass.” “You don’t mean the image of the other book is just
displaced to one
side?” “Oh no, it turns, and the further you’re turning it, the more it
turns” — which is,
of course, completely beyond the ordinary experience. I said, “Don’t you
have mirrors
mixed up?” “No.” In other words, he didn’t know that he’d already
answered that
question — that the light ray coming into the eye, is the direction that
you’ll see
something in the illusion. So I began to realize and I found out by all
this experience,
that it was a most miraculous phenomenon, how these students could
memorize enough
stuff to pass all these examinations, and know so little — nothing, in
fact, whatever —
about nature when they’re finished. It’s impossible to believe, but it
was 100 percent.
Weiner:
These were undergraduates and weren’t necessarily preparing for careers
in science?
Feynman:
Yes.
Weiner:
They were science majors?
Feynman:
The first one I told you, the student that I just mentioned, was trying
to pass his
incoming examination to go into the engineering school. The others were
engineers,
studying this course with the dictation. And I was teaching what was
called the science
faculty, but they were usually to be teachers in science somewhere. They
needed to see,
since they were to be teachers in science, what the normal course of
events was. They
118
would teach what they learned. It’s most incredible, because it was so
complete. It’s hard
to believe that it was so complete. Then, after making all these
discoveries, and
confirming the various things, there were some physicists who were doing
something in
Brazil in that other center, the Physics Research Center. But they had
gone to other
countries to get educated, in one way or another. I was teaching at the
University of
Brazil in Rio. So I had been invited by a student group to give a
lecture on my
experiences in teaching in Brazil, at the end just before I was to
leave. So, I gave the
lecture and these students had gotten to come to the thing all the
professors and the
heads of the departments — a lot of important people. And I went to give
my lecture. I
told them before I gave it that I hoped they didn’t mind; I had every
right to say
whatever I wanted. They said, “Of course.” So when I got there, they saw
that I was
carrying a textbook that they were using which they were very proud of.
It was their best
physics text, and the man who invited me, the young student who invited
me, said, “I
hope you aren’t going to say anything about that, because the author is
in the audience.”
I said, “That’s all right. You told me I could say whatever I want.” I
had found that it
was impossible (I had found by experiment) for me to open that book at
random with
my eyes closed and put my finger down on a sentence that I couldn’t
criticize, that there
wasn’t something the matter with, something wrong with something. So I
gave a lecture
which was really quite something. I started out explaining what science
is. Of course, it’s
a description of nature. I said that I had to speak Portuguese, and I
usually could get one
idea every 15 minutes, but because I had to speak Portuguese, I can’t
get so many. I
wanted to tell them ahead of time what I was going to say. I said, “Of
course, science is a
description of nature,” and so on, a method of describing nature, and
that what I wanted
to say was, first, that science was worth teaching; and second, that no
science was being
taught in Brazil. Two ideas. So I explained what the reasons to teach
science are. I said,
“One of the reasons is, no country can be considered civilized unless it
teaches science.”
And they were all nodding — and I knew that. Then I turned around and
said, “That’s
not a reason at all, what the other nation considers you. But that’s the
reason you’re
using.” Then I went to give the real reason for teaching science, that
the reason that
other nations think no nation can be civilized. And I went through all
this, to kind of
tease them, because I understood them. I would make them feel
comfortable by using
their own view, and then show how absurd it was, you see. Then when I
came to
showing that no science was being taught, I went through this thing
which I just referred
to, and so on. Then, in a demonstration with the book, I said, “Now,
I’ll show you. I’ll
open this book at random, and put by finger down, and there’s something
the matter
with it.” I mentioned some of the things I’d found. I opened it, and put
my finger in, and
it happened to say — just to give them an example, which will help to
explain it here —
it said, “Triboluminescence is the light which is emitted…” Well, it
gave a definition of
Triboluminescence, light emitted when crystals are subjected to strong
pressures, or
something. I said, “That’s nothing. It doesn’t say anything about
nature. It’s a word. If I
was talking about it, I would say it like this… Can you imagine reading
that, and you’re
going to go home and do an experiment? What are you going to do? What is
it?” I said,
“I would write it the other way, you know, like this — that certain
crystals give out light
when they’re broken or pressed. For example, if you take a lump of sugar
in a dark closet
119
and break it, you can see a light blue flash. The origin of this is not
clearly understood,
but the phenomenon generally is called Triboluminescence. The least
important part of
the phenomenon is the name of it, and you have to give an example of it
— where in
nature? Something about the world —” And so on. It was a very nice
lecture, altogether.
After it, the head of the physical department at the University of Rio,
on whose head
everything fell, said he felt like a man. … He said first, “Mr. Feynman
has said some very
strong things, “— he made a sort of keynote remark —”But I think that
you should all
listen to what he has to say. We should all listen to what he has to
say, because I believe
that he’s sincere and that he loves science, and that he has seen
something that horrifies
him.” Then he went on and he said, “I feel very much like a man who has
a rather
uncomfortable feeling in his stomach or something, and goes to the
doctor, and the
doctor tells him that it’s cancer.” That started a discussion, and they
had a tremendous
discussion, about what to do about all this and so on. The students, of
course, those who
were beginning to see — had seen the light — or had come from other
countries, were
making suggestions.
Weiner:
The discussion followed?
Feynman:
For two hours or so, yes — two and a half hours. Well, there were some
other things
that happened at this thing. During the lecture, I said that I believed
that it was
impossible to learn anything, but in spite of that I had some evidence
that I’m not 100
percent right. First, there was one student in my class who was able to
do things, in spite
of his education, and he got an A grade. You know, he was a student that
understood
something, that did show some light. And further, the other thing was
that there was a
professor in Brazil, a Brazilian who had never left the country, who
when talking to him
I felt that he had some real understanding of physics. And he was there.
I mentioned his
name. First the student got up and said, “Excuse me, but I think under
the
circumstances I have to explain that I’m from Germany. I was educated in
Germany.
This is my first year here at the University of Brazil.” Then the
professor got up and said,
“When I went to school in Sao Paulo, it was during the war, and
fortunately there were
no professors present, and so I taught myself everything from reading
books.” The two
examples that I had, that I thought made me not quite so sure, were both
examples in
which there was a specific careful reason why… I tried to claim that
nobody could get
through the system. I couldn’t understand, really, how anybody could get
through the
system without dying intellectually, completely. It was impossible, for
a reasonable mind,
to have to do all that work — it would be jammed, then, you know; it
couldn’t work. So,
there’s been a struggle ever since, and there was this center which
tried to develop its
research. In doing research in Brazil, we tried to develop a center that
people could do
work in, but there were all kinds of up and downs — government favor and
disfavor, the
drying up of funds, and then the oversupply of funds, and then the
drying up of funds
120
— so that it was impossible to maintain a continuity. And in recent
years, there’s been
again a drying up of funds, until the thing’s practically died. There
was a time, not more
than two or three years ago, when the thing was going so well that it
was the center of
physics in all of South America, and students who wanted to learn
physics in South
America would come to this center to study. They’d come from all the
countries of
South America. And now it’s practically dried up. It’s the
irregularities of support,
government support that makes it impossible to maintain and to develop
the center.
Education seems to have been copied from the French system some years
ago. It hasn’t
been modified since. Of course, the physics that was being taught was
all the physics
from before 1850, approximately, in every case.
Weiner:
This is even classical physics without electrodynamics, then.
Feynman:
Practically. They did teach electricity and magnetism. They did have
Maxwell’s equation.
Perhaps I go back too far, but in the beginning of the physics, there’s
so much — by
1850, I mean the style of educating, and the forms and everything. It
looked like the
textbooks had been copied from textbooks, which had been copied from
textbooks
which had been copied from 1850. They couldn’t go that far back; they
couldn’t. But it’s
the same idea. It was very, very unsatisfactory. The reason they called
that textbook
“good,” I found out, was because the important phrases and laws and so
on were in
heavy black type; the less important ones were in lighter type. The
thing was organized in
the type and in the positions of things, so you’d know what it was that
you had to know.
Weiner:
What about Brazilian students who come to the United States to study,
and then return?
Was there very much of this? This is often a positive effect.
Feynman:
Yeah, they would do all right. Many of them would do fairly well.
Weiner:
But would they go into teaching?
Feynman:
Yes. They tried to, but they wouldn’t be able to get into the system,
because the other
121
professors would be jealous of their positions. For example, when Lattes
returned to
Brazil, he couldn’t get into the University of Rio to teach even though
he was a hero
because he had just discovered the artificial meson. All the Brazilians
were excited about
the great Cisco Lattes. And they had to start a new center, the
Brazilian Center for
Physical Research, outside of the university. He ended up, of course, by
teaching, and
guys would get time off from the university to come and learn in this
center. That’s
where I did my better teaching. That’s where I taught my Argentinean
friends and some
of them that I’ve mentioned before.
Weiner:
You were talking about the situation in Brazil, and the ups and downs of
financial
support.
Feynman:
I was talking about the ups and downs of financial support of the
Brazilian Center for
Physical Research, which isn’t the same as the universities and the
teaching. That was
what went up and down, and which had so much difficulty. So it’s sad, to
me, because
after all these years, from 1951 to now, the center is not any bigger.
Oh, the buildings are
in some ways bigger, and so on, but the size, the number of people, is
smaller, and the
vigor is less — at the moment — whereas a few years ago it was more, and
so on. It’s up
and down. It’s a big mess. So it’s gotten essentially nowhere, in that
many years.
Weiner:
You wrote an article recently about this —
Feynman:
Yes, in 1963, I was invited to give a talk. There was a Pan-American
Conference on
Education in Science, or something like that, or even Physics. I think
it was specifically
physics although I’m not sure. Anyhow, they asked me to be the keynote
speaker and so,
for the keynote speech, I criticized in a number of ways — or not
criticized but pointed
out — the problem that Latin America has, because of its governmental
structure and
for other reasons, and the dangers of teaching just by rote, and the
fact that it was taught
just by rote, and so on. Rather dangerously extrapolating my material on
Brazil to all the
other countries, of which I wasn’t absolutely sure. I was very
suspicious; I had various
clues that I was right. In that respect, I was very pleased, because
right after the speech, a
man from Chile would come and he would tell me that he didn’t realize
that I had lived
in Chile and knew so much about the educational system. And a guy from
Venezuela
would admit, would say, you know, that that was a perfect description,
and so on. There
was one exception — the man from British Honduras claimed that I was not
representing the situation correctly. But from the way the man from
British Honduras
122
behaved, I suspect that I really was striking correctly. But he was high
in the educational
system and was protecting it. He’s the only one who objected. But I
think I had hit it
there, too.
Weiner:
Do you have any foreign students in your classes here?
Feynman:
Yes. When they get here, somehow or other they seem to be able to
recover, some of
them, somehow.
Weiner:
I don’t mean only Brazilians; I mean, in general.
Feynman:
Oh, yes. Quite a number. They have their struggles, but they seem to do
all right. It’s like
a dried out plant: give them a little water, and somehow or other — Of
course, this
trouble we have to a large extent in the United States. We have a
symptom of the same
disease. There’s an awful lot of rote learning, and a lot of mistaking
knowledge for the
right technical words and so on, you know. A guy who says the right
words is thought to
know something. I didn’t bother but I could have taught my child, after
he learned to
talk, to say — and I thought I would, just for the fun of it, to
demonstrate this, but I
didn’t bother the poor boy — but it’s not at all impossible to teach a
child to say that pi
is the ratio of the circumference to the diameter of a circle. It’s just
as easy to teach him
that as to teach him a nursery rhyme. And then to say that pi is
numerically equal to
3.14159. That way you can get fooled. You haven’t the slightest idea
what you’re talking
about, and you sound just fine. So I think that we have a lot of that in
this country, too.
But at any rate, the point was about Brazil, which had it so completely
that it’s really a
pity.
Weiner:
But you’ve gone back there, you’ve been invited, so you haven’t worn out
your welcome.
Feynman:
Well, I haven’t worn out my welcome in Brazil, and there have been some
movements in
the right direction, springing from this center — some revamping of
textbooks, and
some other minor attempts. But I believe that at the present time,
within the last six
123
months or so, things have gone rapidly backwards. I’m not sure of that.
One never
knows which way it’s going. But anyway, it is very disheartening, after
all this time, to see
so little change. There are a number of other technical things which
you’ll find in my
article, 1963, which I didn’t bother to go over, which have to do with
why I think it
happens. The industry doesn’t support the education, and the industry
doesn’t need the
highly trained, scientifically trained engineer because they borrow the
engineering
inventions from the other countries, and so on. So that’s another
matter. I don’t want to
go into that phase of it.
Weiner:
Well, let me lead you away from this subject to the Solvay Congress. I’m
not sure what
year it was.
Feynman:
Of course, I always loved Brazil, and I liked the music. I always liked
to go down there.
It’s just a lot of fun, and I know people enjoy the beach and so on. But
this particular
aspect is rather — not so good. Solvay Conference?
Weiner:
Yes. What year was that?
Feynman:
1961, the 50th anniversary of the 1911 meeting in which Einstein, Planck
and so on gave
all their wonderful results, and they were discussing the quantum and
all this kind of
stuff. It was on the same subject — the quantum theory of light. All I
did was give a
summary of our present position; what we knew about electrodynamics as I
could see it
at the time.
Weiner:
Who else was there from this country?
Feynman:
I don’t remember.
Weiner:
A large group?
124
Feynman:
Fairly large — well, yes, Gell-Mann was there. I think Dyson was there,
Schwinger was
there, Bethe was there, and Weisskopf was there, I think, if I remember
right. People
who did things in electrodynamics; all the people who did anything in
electrodynamics.
Weiner:
That was a conference on quantum electrodynamics?
Feynman:
Essentially, that’s right — the interaction of radiation with matter
which was the same
name as the other one, see. We met the King and Queen of Belgium, and so
on. But I
don’t have much to report there, about that. Wigner was there and some
of the other
different guys. Of course, all the guys like Dirac and so on were there.
I gave a report on
the present situation. Other people discussed other aspects of physics
for the day, and so
on. There’s not much to say. The only thing I do say is that when I was
invited, I felt
rather honored because I always — well, it had a reputation, Solvay. I
remember when
Bethe was invited, some time back, to the Solvay Conference. He took
very seriously
writing his report for the Solvay Conference. So, like son, like father,
when I was invited
to the Solvay Conference, and I had to write a report, I took very
seriously the writing of
the report, much like Bethe would have done. I imitated him, in a way,
in my feeling of
it, and wrote my report and went there and delivered it. So I felt that
I ought to do it.
But I don’t know whether much came out of it.
Weiner:
Let me ask some questions about recent developments in quantum
electrodynamics —
current things, your feeling about it — after all these developments.
For example, do you
think that the basic ideas of it would be violated at high energies? Do
you see such a
tendency?
Feynman:
Yes. No. You asked two different questions. You said, “Do I think it
will be violated?”
And I said yes. “Do I see tendencies of this?” I say no.
Weiner:
At high energy.
125
Feynman:
Yes. I don’t see tendencies, though I think it would be violated.
Weiner:
What does this mean, in terms of your total view?
Feynman:
Guessing; just guessing.
Weiner:
Yeah. You think that it’s all right now.
Feynman:
No. You said do I think it will be violated at high energies? Yes.
Weiner:
But you don’t see the tendencies — I see; all right, that clarifies it.
Feynman:
I don’t see the tendencies. I can’t say a thing is right if I think it
will be violated.
Weiner:
All right, that’s just a basic question. Do you see schools now in
physics, in the sense of
schools of thought; sort of a field theory school and a scattering
matrix school, and that
sort of thing?
Feynman:
I don’t think that way. I mean, I don’t think about it. I don’t know
who’s doing what. I
know there are people who think about field theory. There are people who
do certain
kinds of problems. There are people who think other ways. But I don’t
pay attention to
how many members are there in a school; is there just one guy or is it a
school?
Weiner:
126
How about the ideas, though?
Feynman:
Well, there’s lots of different ideas. There always have been.
Weiner:
You don’t categorize them into major categories. You don’t see them as
sitting in two
camps, or anything?
Feynman:
No, just guys with different ideas. Actually, there probably are little
schools because I do
think, although perhaps incorrectly, that today there’s a tendency for
the younger men to
follow a leader. So, for example, if Chus is believing that everything
is going to come out
of the s matrix, then he gathers a coterie, perhaps — I haven’t paid
enough attention to
this — around him, who also believe it’s going to come and they work
together. That’s
almost theoretical. I mean, I don’t know that. The only school that I
know of is a school,
so-called, of Professor Wheeler who is doing (I don’t believe they’re
sensible things)
gravitation and geometry and so on; i.e., quantum theory of gravitation
and so on. And
he has a school of students around him who seem to believe his, what I
think are, sort of
wild ideas, and they seem to be kind of absorbed in them. There have
been schools of
that kind, with special wildnesses. Like when what’s his name,
Eddington, got his crazy
theories, near the end of his life, about physics, there were a number
of students who
went along and published papers on it, among which was my friend H. C.
Corbin. H. C.
Corbin, however, woke up and realized that it was cockeyed. So, maybe.
But there is one
tendency that I do see, I think, in that when a new idea comes up — like
Reggie Pole’s is
a good one — there seems to be a whole comet tail of guys. See, somebody
notices a
good idea and starts working on it, and there’s a whole comet tail of
guys who rush in,
thinking that this is the coming thing. In other words, they expect to
be at the forefront
of the thing by seeing what somebody is doing that looks new. He says
that it looks
good, and they hope that by working there they’ll be at the edge. So
there are these large
numbers of people who rush, it seems to me, from one theoretical view to
another
theoretical view. They’re sort of mediocre characters, and follow the
leader, sort of, from
one point of view to another point of view, as the ideas of the times
vary. There’s
nothing wrong that the ideas of the time vary, but it seems to me odd
that there’s that
much work on each of the ideas, one at a time. It does seem to me that
there’s always a
favorite idea, an “in fashion” idea. There’s a fashion, more than
schools.
Weiner:
I think Dyson had an article, and he called it: “The Changing Fashions
in Field Theory.”
127
Feynman:
Yes. Maybe he did. But I get the same idea, that there are kind of
fashions that people
rush off from one to another of these fashions. They do an
unproportional amount of
work that’s repetitious and not very good. I don’t mean the leaders at
the front, like Gell-
Mann or somebody, who decide that Reggie Poles are good. They always do
worthwhile
things. But there’s always this crew of characters who talk about it and
verify things and
check things, back in the back, that don’t mean a damn thing. And then
the whole thing
isn’t worth anything. It turns out not to be right. Maybe. In other
words, many of these
guys are unnecessary. They’ve got nothing else to do, and they just rush
around. It’s just
a backwash that I don’t see makes any difference.
Weiner:
And you think there’s more of that today than there has been in the
past?
Feynman:
Very much so. I think we have too many guys in theoretical physics
who’ve got nothing
else to do — I mean, in fundamental physics. And they just rush around,
all over the
place, not by independent thought. They’re not critical, they’re not
careful, the papers are
sloppy, and the work isn’t very good. And the real work in the field is
always by a limited
number of guys. Now, of course, in this scurry somewhere there may be
some guy who’ll
turn out to be OK later, and so on; I can’t say. That happens. And it’s
important that
these fellows exist. But it just seems to me there are too many guys
running around
following, in these field theoretical problems.
Weiner:
Yes, that’s what we’re talking about. In this article that I mentioned
before, quoting
Oppenheimer in Newsweek last week, it quoted him as being “very
optimistic that out of
this current chaos in physics fundamental insight will be obtained and
that it might not
be as far off as decades. It might be years.” He sees some order. I just
wondered —
Feynman:
Yes. I think so.
Weiner:
Why? He didn’t have a chance to explain himself, so if you agree
generally, in what way?
Feynman:
128
Well, as you noticed by looking at my papers, I mumbled that I didn’t
believe in the
meson theory and so on, in a certain era. What I was convinced more of
was that all the
clues were not in. Now, in history of physics, in all cases, with very
few exceptions —
there are exceptions, Einstein’s theory of relativity is an exception,
general relativity —
after the discovery of the law is made, you can say: “Gee, why didn’t we
think of this
before?” That is, everything is lying around, and people try to put it
together, and all of a
sudden somebody does, and you look and you say: “Gee, that was kind of
obvious!” So
an interesting historical question is, on each discovery, to ask: When
would it have been
possible, in principle, for the human mind to have made the discovery?
For example —
relativity was beyond Maxwell, because there wasn’t the experiment to
indicate, for
example, that the movement of the earth couldn’t be detected — the
Michelson-Morley
experiment. There’s no clue that you need this theory.
Weiner:
But there’s no evidence that Einstein ever was influenced by this
experiment.
Feynman:
He certainly was influenced — that’s crazy. He may not have been
influenced directly,
but by the people who were worrying about the problem. Like Poincare,
proposing the
principle of the invariance of the laws under the transformation of
Lorentz, and Lorentz
worrying about the original thing, talking about the contraction and
noticing what
formulas lead to the Maxwell equation in varying — that’s all part of
history. So he was
influenced by the experiment in the sense that the idea was passed
along. Ok. So, I
mean, he isn’t sitting there watching the experiment, but the experiment
produces the
puzzle that is then the puzzle of the age, which is, how to put the
electricity and
Newton’s laws together? Otherwise, no problem. You can see that it’s not
possible to
cook this thing up. It’s possible to guess it, but it’s not possible to
establish it, or to see
that it’s better than another guess, before a certain time. It’s always
possible to imagine
that somebody just plain guesses the right law. But you can’t say that
they discovered the
Schrodinger equation by writing it down. That’s not what I’m talking
about. There’s no
clue that it’s reasonably more correct than something else. But there
comes an era when
it’s possible to make such a discovery. For example, before the neutron
was discovered,
nobody is going to get anywhere in nuclear physics. Ok? They had
proposed the
neutron, and suggested it, and gradually understood that there’s a
neutron — but you
have to wait for that before you can begin. Ok? So I felt at the time
that the mesons had
been discovered, that there’s not enough clues. First, there were these
strange particles,
which are evidently involved somewhere, and you can’t get away with it
by not playing
them into the thing, and so on. So I didn’t pay much attention to meson
theory, after I’d
done my original calculations to indicate that it was no good to me. So
I did other
problems, like helium and gravity and lots of things, waiting. And then
they picked up all
these particles. Well, while they’re picking them up, they can’t see the
pattern. But when
129
Gell-Mann came out with the SU-3, and when the system was checked by the
discovery
of the omega minus, I got convinced that — I mean, just a guess — that
all the clues are
now in; that the SU-3 pattern and so on is fundamentally in about the
strong interaction.
Now, maybe all the clues about the weak interaction are not in, but I
thought all the
clues about the strong interaction were in, and therefore the discovery
should be made
— now. It’ll turn out that when we finally discover the law, I think
we’ll be able to say,
“We should have been able to do it right after SU-3 was established.”
Weiner:
The time is ripe for it now.
Feynman:
That’s what I say. Any old time. So I kind of agree with Oppenheimer
about that. With
regard to the weak interaction, I am in quite as good a position because
of this K-2
business, this K naught, and the CP violation. And just today you tell
me about the
publication of the asymmetry in the eta decay, which I haven’t looked at
in any detail, to
verify one way or the other. But there you are probably telling us
something about the
weak interactions, maybe even more about the strong interactions, and
maybe a clue that
I didn’t know I had. But anyway, things are pregnant, in my opinion —
very pregnant.
Weiner:
I think what they’re saying here is this is an intermediate interaction.
Feynman:
Well, I’ll look into it. I’ll have to look into it, and see what —
Weiner:
That’s fine. I think that we’ve covered, in the last couple of days and
in the session
before, quite a lot of ground, and it’s only after we have a chance to
get some distance
—
Feynman:
We’ll see something missing, probably.
Weiner:
We’ll see that things are missing.
130
Feynman:
Yeah, you might want to hear about my reaction to the Nobel Prize. I
think it’s too close
— I mean, I want to say this on the tape, I’ve said it to you before,
that it’s too close to
the time, and I haven’t really settled in my mind to get a rational
reaction. I have more of
an emotional reaction to it, the prize, than a rational reaction. And
the emotional
reaction is partially distasteful. So it isn’t like the other things,
where there’s enough time
in between, and I can just look at it as if it was somebody else. I’m
still mixed up in it. I
always thought — I mean, I thought that it was always a possibility that
I might get a
Nobel Prize, because I thought somebody might think the work in helium,
or maybe the
beta decay, or even the electrodynamics, might be something for the
Nobel Prize but
then, on what kind of considerations? Usually it’s said that they don’t
pay much attention
to theory, but if you look at the list of prize winners, it isn’t true.
There are a lot of
theoretical discoveries of importance there, if I remember right.
Anyway, when I looked
at it, I was surprised afterwards that there were more than I thought.
Maybe, it’s just the
sour grapes attitude of theorists. Each year when the Nobel Prize
talking comes around,
of course you half-think, maybe it’s possible. But I was never surer,
one way or the
other, whether they would pick it out or not. And this particular year,
I had forgotten
that it was that season. And I was awakened at 4 o’clock in the morning
by a telephone
call from the American Broadcasting Company, who told me that I had won
the Nobel
Prize. I was awakened at 4 o’clock, and one is not too wise at 4 o’clock
in the morning,
having just been awakened by a telephone call, and I was angry at the
man for
interrupting my sleep. And I was not so excited about it as the public
would have me
wont to be, if you know what I mean. I said, “Ok, so all right.” I was
upset that I’d been
disturbed, and I simply told the fellow, “What are you waking me up for
at 4 in the
morning?” He said, “I thought you’d like to know you’d won the Prize.”
“Yeah, but you
could have told me in the morning.” So I kind of hung up. I turned to my
wife and said,
“I won the Nobel Prize.” She laughed. She said, “I don’t believe you.”
Because I’m
always trying to play some kind of trick on her, and she’s always very
wise. I never get
anywhere; she always knows. This is the one time in which I played a
trick on her the
other way that worked. She was wrong. I said, “No. It’s true.” She
believed it when there
was another call, immediately after and this time some guy says, “Have
you heard —?” I
said, “Yeah.” You know he started out: “Hello, have you heard —?” He
says, “Is this
Dr. Feynman?” “Yeah.” “Have you heard —?” I say, “Yeah.” “Do you have
any
comment?” “No,” and I hung up. Just don’t bother me at this hour. So we
both lay in
bed hoping that, you know, it would go away. We didn’t jump up and
wildly run around
or anything. It was to me a rather annoying thing, because I realized
what it would mean
is all this noise and all this trouble and wild business, you know?
There’d be
newspapermen for whom I had no respect, publicity for which I had no
respect. This
world is so full of hot air, and just extra propaganda junk today, that
it’s not real. I just
don’t want to get involved with all that stuff, and I didn’t know how I
was going to
escape it. I still imagined that I could by not answering the phone. So
I took the
telephone off the hook. And then I went downstairs, down here — because
I couldn’t
131
sleep, naturally — and began to think about it, and I decided, you can’t
stop this. This is
too big. You can’t stop this by just not answering the telephone. It’ll
get to look solemn.
It’ll be a worse mess if you do that than if you just go along with the
damn thing. So,
after this little business — I couldn’t stop it — I put the receiver
back on the thing, and I
tried to answer more politely, because immediately it rang. This was the
guy from the
Associated Press, and he asked me some questions, and I answered, very
much more
politely. “All right,” he says, “now we’re sending a man over to take
pictures.” “Oh,
God” I said, you know, because I didn’t want all this. See, I hadn’t
realized that. He says,
“Well, there’s no way to —” He was kind of on my side a little bit. We
talked about this
problem. I said, “What am I going to do?” “I guess you can’t do
anything.” You know.
We had an interesting conversation. I never found out who it was, and I
never saw
anything of this conversation in the newspaper. He was a very nice guy
about it, you
know. It was just great. We had a nice conversation, in which he told me
how to behave
— give up, so to speak, and ride it for the fun of it. “There’s no
reasonable way to do it,”
he said. But he never made any commentary about this. It’s rather
interesting. So that
was a good man. I don’t know who it is. A good man. Then anyway I tell
him, “OK,
send the photographers. Sooner or later somebody’s going to take
pictures.” Then things
began to go. I mean, once I was on the nice side, everybody that called
wanted to take
pictures. The guy came over from the local newspaper in a car and so on.
It was 2 in the
morning by this time, you know. My wife got up and made coffee for
everybody. The
boy woke up. We were walking around in our pajamas. Then I got dressed.
You know
this kind of stuff — with all the excitement. That’s the way it began.
Then there was a
press conference at 10 o’clock, over in the Athenaeum, and all this
baloney — which was
kind of pleasant. But it’s more of an annoyance than anything.
Weiner:
What about the student reaction? Did they get out a special thing?
Feynman:
Well, the students -– yes — that was good. The students put up a great
banner, up on
Throop Hall, either that day or the next day. It was something like,
“Go, Go Feynman”
or “Go Feynman” or some such. I can’t remember what it was. “Go Big” or
something
like that. They were very delighted. They did a good job of it. And
there were other
things that I didn’t even see, because I didn’t get a chance to walk
pleasantly around on
the campus. I was always busy answering telephone calls and getting my
picture taken
and everything. But people tell me that they set up a lot of signs, like
congratulatory
things of various kinds, with jokes and everything else that I missed,
and I’m sorry about
that.
Weiner:
Was there a special edition of the newspaper that they got out?
132
Feynman:
That they got out the next day. And they came over to interview me. They
were the best
interviewers of anybody who interviewed me, because they were really
interested a little
bit in what I got the prize for, and had the patience to wait for the
answer. But the other
guys would say, “Can you tell us in —” “Of course, we don’t know, your
public isn’t
going to understand a thing you say,” and so on and so on. They almost
say it this way,
you know. They’re in fear and trembling, you know. “Will you please tell
us what you
won the prize for — but don’t tell us because we’ll not understand it.”
This kind of stuff.
Weiner:
“Give us a quote we can use.”
Feynman:
Yeah, “give us a quote” is really what they’re trying to say. And I
couldn’t figure a way of
saying it. I gradually developed a way, but it was rather too late —
saying I’d worked on
the interaction of radiation and matter. That sounds good and doesn’t
say anything. But I
couldn’t think of that simple phrase at the time. I was thinking more
seriously, to try to
explain what I did, which is hopeless. There was one guy who came in the
office, after
that news interview, from Time Magazine and was taking pictures. He
couldn’t have
made it at the right time, so he’s taking extra pictures of something.
As he’s taking the
pictures, he says, “How’s it going?” I said, “I’m doing all right except
when they say to
me, ‘Could you tell me in a sentence, please, what you do to win the
prize?’ Or, ‘tell me
in one minute.’ I don’t know how to say it.” “Aw,” he says, “you know,
if I were in that
position,” he says, taking pictures all this time, “and they say to me,
‘What did you do to
win the Prize? Can you tell me in a minute?’ I would simply say,
‘Listen, buddy, if I could
tell you in a minute what I did, it wouldn’t be worth the Nobel Prize.’”
So I used that
joke afterwards. It was a very good remark. Yeah.
Weiner:
That was the end of October, right? Just the very end?
Feynman:
Yes. I think so. And then we had hundreds of letters, from friends all
over the world,
and relatives — like a relative of mine happened to be on a ship, you
know, going from
Spain to somewhere and, oh gee, he practically busted a gasket, and sent
a big telegram. I
got telephone calls from Mexico City that I can’t hear because the
telephone system was
no good. I still tried to get back and tell that person I really liked
it, and thank them for
133
the call, but I don’t know the address so I’m stuck. It was hard to hear
but I finally
understood who it was. All kinds of crazy stuff. Very nice letters. They
were all full of —
kind of happy. Everybody was excited. Each letter indicated some
excitement in the
house, whoever it was. You know, there were all kinds: serious letters,
that they had
never made a better choice or some such wonderful remark, or joking
letters, or pure
humor, or simple things like Rinus, for example, suddenly turns up and
says
“Superfragilistic” — yeah, that’s all. There were things like that.
There were all kinds of
things, serious and humorous, telegrams and letters. And in each of them
I saw
happiness on the part of the people who were sending it and some real
feeling of
affection, which kind of overwhelmed me and made me feel real love for
all these
people, because they all seemed to be so good-hearted and so happy about
the
congratulations. I didn’t realize that to have everything come at once
like that, it really
makes you feel good. So that was the good part of the whole thing, the
letters. That was
the good part. And everything else, to me, was something of a chore,
plus a great worry,
which I would like to express to you, because it’s funny. I had to go to
Sweden, you see,
to get this prize, and this involves formality, formal things. I don’t
like formal things. For
example, after I got out of school, MIT, I never wore a tuxedo. I don’t
like the way it
looks. I don’t like to get dressed up formal, and I swore off the darned
things. But as I
told you once before, I have this silly business that when I’m young, I
make principles,
and as I get older, I have to break them. One of them I had to break,
the tuxedo — it
sounds stupid, but it’s one of those things. I don’t like this formal
business, you see. It’s
not a pleasure to me. Certainly it’s not a pleasure. Furthermore, the
best way to express it
is this. When I was young, my father used to teach me that a king is no
more than an
ordinary man, and to not look at the appearances but what the thing
really is. So, this is
all appearances — after I get the prize, I mean — all this nonsense I
gotta do in Sweden.
Appearances, dinner with the King, meet the King, get the Prize, tatata,
all this stuff, see.
And the worst of it was that I ridicule kings and things like that. I
ridicule ceremony. I
used to. I still do. I laugh at it. And here I have to be a party to it.
It’s not very consistent
to laugh at it when somebody else is doing it, but when you’re in it,
because you’re
receiving a prize and so on, you’re going to go right along without some
kind of — You
know, you used to laugh, and here you are, the Big Boy, right in the
middle of it, not
laughing anymore, ha ha ha! So this bothers me. I don’t know how to
express it very
well. It bothered me. And then I also heard, somebody told me, that you
shouldn’t turn
your back on the King. You’ve got to back up the steps after you receive
this thing, see.
I’d misunderstood a little bit, but it bothered me. And I said, “This is
ridiculous, like an
Oriental potentate.” All of this was a strain — it’s stupid, but a
strain. And my wife
meanwhile was very happy -– “I’ve got to buy you a tux, you gotta buy
this, you gotta
buy that, you gotta buy this —” And I’d think, “No, no!” You see, each
thing she buys,
I’d think was only for ceremony, to be worn only once. Such money, it’s
crazy — I don’t
want a tuxedo. I bought all the junk, everything, anyway. But she’s gone
far… Then, this
business of backing up the steps—and you know what I planned to do? I
thought this is
so ridiculous that I’m going to do something ridiculous back. If I have
to back up steps,
I’m going to invent a way to go up steps backwards that nobody’s ever
seen before. So I
practiced on these steps here, going up steps backwards by jumping, two
feet at a time,
134
you know -– buppbupbupbup — to see if I could do it very quickly. So
when I walked
backwards to the steps, I would go brrrrrrpppp — right up the steps, in
a very peculiar
manner.
Weiner:
Like an old movie.
Feynman:
Yes. Exactly; backwards in order to show the ridiculousness by other
ridiculousness. See,
more or less like — yes, that’s the idea, like an old movie. That was my
plan. I practiced
a little bit. But I didn’t practice very much, because I expected to go
there and see what
the steps looked like, when there was just a rehearsal, and to figure
it, then practice it,
and then do something crazy. I was going to do something crazy. In fact,
the Swedish
Ambassador came to talk to me, and said, “You must be looking forward to
visiting our
country?” And I told him, no, there were certain things I was worried
about. I guess he
must have wired in or something, “Watch out for this guy.” I didn’t tell
him I was going
to jump up the steps backwards. But he told me it was quite silly, this
business, and I
don’t have to worry about it. It’s easy to go up the steps. You don’t
have to worry about
not facing the King; it isn’t going to be so serious. As a matter of
fact, when I got there,
it turned out that there was no such rule. I don’t know when they
changed it, but there
was no such rule. But there must have been a rule not too far ago,
because Block sent
me — I wrote him, “How do you go upstairs backwards?” — he sent me a
mirror from
an automobile — you know, a back view mirror — and so on. So they didn’t
simply
write to me, “There’s no such problem.” They seemed to have known of the
problem.
But apparently there was no such problem when I got there. Things had
been changed
so you didn’t have to worry about that after all. Anyway, there was this
worry, and I
didn’t sleep well at night when I was in Sweden, because of all these
worries. I was
afraid. I didn’t like the formalities. I didn’t know how I was going to
live through them,
without doing something stupid, because I was in an uncomfortable
position. But they
were very nice there, and they’re very nice people. Everything was good,
everything was
fine there, and so on, except its formal, and I had time to take care of
all — Excuse me,
that’s not quite right at all. They had a first secretary of the embassy
who was very good
about taking care of all these things. In fact, I felt a little
uncomfortable, ordering the
first secretary to get me a tuxedo. It seemed out of place. He was a
very highly intelligent
and fine man with great talent, and here I was treating him like a
flunky, to get this and
do that. “Remind me tomorrow morning when I have to go somewhere.” It
was rather
uncomfortable, because I’m not used to that either. And so on. So, for
an American, it
isn’t so easy, really. They make jokes about it in public. But I think
that other Americans
must have some of the same — I don’t know, I would guess — some of the
same
uncomfortable feelings, all the way along, with this nonsense about
kings, and
ceremonies. Dealings with the king, and all this fancy folderol, bowing
and scraping and
everything else — it’s just dopey. They tell me that Sweden is a
democracy like the
135
United States — you know, is a great democracy. In fact, in many ways
it’s more
democratic. It’s true. But nevertheless, I was brought up by my old man,
so it made it
hard for me. So anyhow — oh, we had a lot of good things they did. I
don’t know
whether to tell crazy stories or not. There are all kinds of stories of
the events, but that’s
just anecdotes that don’t mean anything.
Weiner:
What about your address? Do you have anything special to say there? You
delivered your
address —
Feynman:
Oh, yeah. All right. They have to give a speech for the Nobel Prize,
something to do
with your work, and I couldn’t quite figure what to do because after
all, three of us won
the prize together for essentially the same problem. And if I talk about
field theory and
Schwinger talks about field theory and Tomonaga, who it turned out
couldn’t make it
because he was ill and couldn’t get there — would also talk about field
theory, it
wouldn’t be a very good idea. Then I went around and got this idea I
would describe the
personal experiences, much like this history here.
Weiner:
You talked with me about it, in your office, when I first met you, in
November.
Feynman:
Yes. Right. I got this idea, to talk about the history as if — you
didn’t give me that idea?
Weiner:
No. You tried it out on me.
Feynman:
OK. I just wondered, because sometimes somebody gives you an idea, and
you think you
get the idea.
Weiner:
No, you had the idea.
Feynman:
136
OK, I was just curious. I had the idea.
Weiner:
You must have done it right away.
Feynman:
Well, I got it after a little time, just a little time, and I asked a
lot of people, you know,
what they would think of such a thing, like Anderson and so on, who knew
what the
prize was like; and they said it was a good idea. I looked at the other
speeches. There
weren’t many like that, but that didn’t make any difference. You can do
whatever you
want. The real mistake that one makes when one wins the prize is to take
it all too
seriously for example, this speech. I worried very hard — is it
appropriate to give such a
speech? It don’t make a Goddamn bit of difference. It isn’t really very
serious. It doesn’t
make any difference what you say. After all, may I remind you that I
have never in my
life read the Nobel lecture of anybody? They’re published, but who reads
them? It turns
out that Faulkner had a famous lecture, somebody told me, but otherwise,
in physics,
there hasn’t been a famous lecture that people read, that is worthwhile,
that is prepared
for publishing somewhere else. So I realized that to some extent, but
still you do tend to
take it seriously and to try to prepare it carefully, and so on. This is
a kind of a waste of
time. And then when you get there, and it’s time to give the lecture,
since you’ve been
taking it a little bit seriously that your work is of some importance
and that you were
given a prize for the work, you would think that your description of
something
associated with the work would be more important than all these little
ceremonies.
That’s the thought that was in my mind. When I came there and found that
the lecture
room was about half full, with people who were evidently only coming to
see what the
guy looked like — many of them were sort of sleepy and it was more or
less formal, and
you were hurried along because you have to go to the next ceremony,
don’t forget, and
so on — and nobody really cared too much about what you were saying, it
was quite an
amusing difference to me. I realized that the people were not
understanding. They
weren’t the kind that might. There weren’t very many who would. They
weren’t really
interested in the subject and in the speech. So the only thing that
might be thought to be
real in this whole thing turned out to be least interesting to the
Swedish people. So that
was kind of interesting. I was invited to various universities, in
particular to the
University of Uppsala, to give the speech. And at the University of
Uppsala, the same
thing happened. The room was packed solid to the gills with people, and
I was trying to
tell them something I found very interesting — which was Mercereau’s
effect on
superconductivity — but I ran a little bit over time. I was caught in
the middle of
explaining the important and interesting things — which are clearly
beautiful and
interesting things — when I got interrupted by the man on the grounds
that some rector
or something of the university was waiting for me for lunch. So, in that
it’s really right.
They consider that the ceremonial things, the meeting with the rector
and so on, are
137
important. The fact that you came to give a speech is only sort of a
reason to go through
all these other things, a sort of a formal invitation, and the speech
giving was only so that
people can see what you look like, what you sound like. Nobody was
really listening to
what you were saying — it seemed to me. I may exaggerate, but that’s the
feeling I got
there — that what I was saying was nowhere near as important as me
myself, the freak,
to be looked at. And the ceremony, the fact that I’m in Uppsala, means
the next thing I
have to do is talk to the rector and go to dinner, and so on. And this
all to me was just
backwards to what I’m used to. I usually like to think that the subject
of my speech is the
important matter. So those things bothered me. But there were many
things that were
quite pleasant and very pleasurable. There was a student time, when the
students
entertained us — just marvelous. Just great, because they’re not formal
enough yet, you
know. And they slightly ridicule formality. They’re very much like
Americans, and I felt
very much better at home, with joking and the nonsense that they went
through. Then,
after that, I was invited to a beer cellar by some of the students, and
we had a kind of a
little party, in the beer cellar. This was very informal, very much fun.
I say very informal,
but as a matter of fact they did give little formal speeches. There was
a man with a sword
who would bang the table, “Speech,” you know. “I’m going to give a
speech,” and it was
mixed, you know, very interesting. But fun. Also there was another
amusing thing that
happened. There was, after the main ceremony where we received the
medals, a dance
that came after. Or there was first a meeting with the students and some
speeches and
then the dance.
Weiner:
There was a thank-you speech that you gave too.
Feynman:
Yes, I also gave a thank-you speech, which does correctly express, if
read very literally,
my feeling about the Nobel Prize. It was put in as polite a way as I
could. It expresses
the idea — I mean, the idea is expressed (you could probably get it by
reading it) that —
well, you read it. At the dancing afterwards — you see, I had to get
some release from
the formalities — I overdid it then. When I got informal, I just went
wild, you see. So
when the dancing began, we started, I danced with my wife; then I danced
with
somebody else, a sister of a Nobel Prize winner. I didn’t get to dancing
with the Princess,
because I had a — you know, I wouldn’t even try. But I danced with some
nice — I
don’t remember who it was, families of other Nobel Prize winners — nice
girls and so
on. Then, I had winked a couple of times at one pretty student. So, when
there was a lull,
and I saw her again, I went over to her and asked her — a student
anyway, kind of
mixing, you know what I mean, a student of the university — I asked her
if she would
like to dance. She said, “Yah,” and we danced. She danced very well, and
we danced kind
of wild, and we had a great time. I danced with her quite a lot, to the
exclusion of all the
formal people, the Princess, everything else. And I must say, it’s very
amusing, the world
is — really, and in Sweden it’s completely under control. When I danced
with my wife,
138
when I danced with the daughter of a Nobel Prize winner, they were
taking pictures, all
the time — click, flash, flash. When I danced with this girl, which I
did twice as many
dances as I did with anybody else altogether — no pictures. Nothing. Not
in the paper.
Not a picture. Nothing. Apparently there’s something wrong with this,
you see, and they
protect the Nobel Prize winners from their dumb idiosyncrasies. But this
was my idea of
relaxing, of informality. I had to do something because I had to get out
from under, you
know what I mean? It was fun. It was funny.
Weiner:
From there, you went to Geneva on your way home.
Feynman:
Yeah, I did. I went to Geneva on the way home.
Weiner:
And Weisskopf invited you go give the address.
Feynman:
It’s the same address again. I did it much better there. I wish there
were a recording of
that, because that I did fine. See, I had to write the darned thing for
the Nobel Prize,
which I wrote from some recording or something. No, how did I write it?
Yeah, I think I
wrote it from the recording of the speech that I made or something. I
can’t remember.
No, I guess I dictated into a machine.
Weiner:
After?
Feynman:
During. And then later, because I didn’t make it in time, and I had
terrible troubles
because I hate to write, and I had to write this darned thing. I gave
the speech best in
front of the group in Geneva, because they’re friends. They want to hear
what I’ve got to
say. They laugh at the right moment. I mean, you could see in the faces
there interest in
what I’m about to say, and then the smile when it comes out. You can see
you’re talking
to somebody. You know what you’re doing. There I think I did very much
better on that
talk than I did in the particular talk in Sweden.
Weiner:
139
Weisskopf commented that it was terrific; everyone there thought it was.
Feynman:
I felt good about it too. I was doing all right. I was among friends.
This was completely
different. They were here, they liked me, but they wanted to hear the
talk, too. I mean, it
was completely different. As a matter of fact, it was very amusing,
because what
happened at the beginning was, I had worn a very nice suit that I had
got from the tailor,
specially made for this, you know; specially made suit. I liked the
suit. Usually, I didn’t
care one way or the other. I liked the suit. So when I got there I
started my speech by
remarking that, to show that the Nobel Prize has some kind of influence
on me I’d
changed — because I always liked to give a talk in shirtsleeves. But now
I think I have a
nice suit on, and I’m rather pleased, and I would like to give this with
my coat on. You
know? Everybody says, “Boooo!” And Vicky(?) got up and said, “No! You
must take off
your coat like me.” And he tore his coat off, and I had to take my coat
off — which was
good for me. That was fine. I took off my coat and I gave this speech in
shirtsleeves. I
was home again.
Weiner:
Spontaneous reaction.
Feynman:
Yes, their spontaneous reaction was “No.” Yeah, that was fun.
Weiner:
All right, what do you say, then, we bring this to a close.
Feynman:
Yeah, all right.
Richard Feynman interview transcript used with permission by Melanie
Jackson
Agency, LLC.
140
NIELS BOHR LIBRARY & ARCHIVES / TRANSCRIPT
ONE PHYSICS ELLIPSE, COLLEGE PARK, MD 20740 • (301)-209-3177 •
NBL@AIP.ORG
Richard Feynman - Session V
February 4, 1973
Interviewed by: Charles Weiner
Location: Altadena, California
Transcript version date: December 18, 2024
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1063/nbla.orjj.lolq
1
Abstract:
Interview covers the development of several branches of theoretical
physics from the
1930s through the 1960s; the most extensive discussions deal with topics
in quantum
electrodynamics, nuclear physics as it relates to fission technology,
meson field theory,
superfluidity and other properties of liquid helium, beta decay and the
Universal Fermi
Interaction, with particular emphasis on Feynman's work in the
reformulation of
quantum electrodynamic field equations. Early life in Brooklyn, New
York; high school;
undergraduate studies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology; learning
the theory of
relativity and quantum mechanics on his own. To Princeton University
(John A.
Wheeler), 1939; serious preoccupation with problem of self-energy of
electron and other
problems of quantum field theory; work on uranium isotope separation;
Ph.D., 1942.
Atomic bomb project, Los Alamos (Hans Bethe, Niels Bohr, Enrico Fermi);
test
explosion at Alamagordo. After World War II teaches mathematical physics
at Cornell
University; fundamental ideas in quantum electrodynamics crystalize;
publishes "A
Space-Time View," 1948; Shelter Island Conference (Lamb shift); Poconos
Conferences;
relations with Julian Schwinger and Shin'ichiro Tomonaga; nature and
quality of
scientific education in Latin America; industry and science policies. To
California
Institute of Technology, 1951; problems associated with the nature of
superfluid helium;
work on the Lamb shift (Bethe, Michel Baranger); work on the law of beta
decay and
violation of parity (Murray Gell-Mann); biological studies; philosophy
of scientific
discovery; Geneva Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy;
masers (Robert
Hellwarth, Frank Lee Vernon, Jr.), 1957; Solvay Conference, 1961.
Appraisal of current
state of quantum electrodynamics; opinion of the National Academy of
Science; Nobel
Prize, 1965.
2
Usage Information and Disclaimer:
This transcript, or substantial portions thereof, may not be
redistributed by any means
except with the written permission of the American Institute of Physics.
AIP oral history transcripts are based on audio recordings, and the
interviewer and
interviewee have generally had the opportunity to review and edit a
transcript, such that
it may depart in places from the original conversation. If you have
questions about the
interview, or you wish to consult additional materials we may have that
are relevant to it,
please contact us at nbl@aip.org for further information.
Please bear in mind that this oral history was not intended as a
literary product and
therefore may not read as clearly as a more fully edited source. Also,
memories are not
fully reliable guides to past events. Statements made within the
interview represent a
subjective appreciation of events as perceived at the time of the
interview, and factual
statements should be corroborated by other sources whenever possible or
be clearly
cited as a recollection.
3
Weiner:
Let me test the machine by saying that this is Charles Weiner talking
once again after a
gap of almost seven years with Richard Feynman in his home as before…I
should say
that today is the 4th of February 1973… We left off last time — although
you haven’t
had a chance to look at the transcript about it, the very last item we
talked about was the
reaction to the Nobel Award, but specifically the Nobel ceremony: the
whole ritual that
was involved, the speech that you gave there, the response to it, how
you felt about it.
You gave another talk in Geneva under quite different circumstances and
how this was
an audience that was more responsive and more intelligent about the
whole thing. And
you said then that it was really too early to put it into perspective,
but that is exactly what
I wanted — the fresh flavor of it. We had taken your scientific work, in
more or less
reasonable sequence, up to that time. We had talked about your personal
life — your
biography, essentially — all the things that you were doing and feeling,
the changes in
your career, the motivations, why you switched. So now the intention is
to really pick it
up from then. One way perhaps, since I really know less about this than
I did about the
other subjects because I had more materials to work with and more
perspective of my
own is to get an over-view. Maybe we could start off by characterizing
the period from
‘65 to now, in terms of your main thrusts of research, the subjects of
the research — this
is without too much detail — and then we would establish some kind of
structure and
go back systematically. Teaching — how this changed. Biographical
details — your life
since then — if it was just the same or if there were significant
differences in it. I’m not
even aware of whether you were away at all during the time for extended
periods.
Feynman:
I can’t remember anything.
Weiner:
OK. Then we’ll start with the first year and see what happens. Let me
just ask a general
question about the main subjects of research. When I saw you since the
interview — it
was in your summer house in Santa Barbara that you were renting one
summer, I don’t
recall the summer, and it may have been ‘68 -–
Feynman:
It was ‘68.
Weiner:
4
That’s what I thought. And you had come back from SLAC where you had
seen some
experiments.
Feynman:
Oh yeah, you came at a marvelous time. If you’d have really gotten that
down, you’d
have had something.
Weiner:
That was an exciting moment. You were very excited about the results.
You we’re talking
with your graduate student there, explaining it to him with me present,
and so I was
witnessing something as it was occurring.
Feynman:
Have you got all that?
Weiner:
What do I have from it? I remember my recollection of it.
Feynman:
You didn’t write anything down.
Weiner:
No, I want to talk with you about it.
Feynman:
Just cause you got this god-damned tape recorder, it has to be on the
tape-recorder or it
doesn’t count, huh?
Weiner:
I could not possibly recreate the content of that argument but I want to
reconstruct the
general circumstances. You told me that you had spent considerable time
boning up for
this high energy course that you had volunteered to teach the following
fall, in the fall of
‘68, so that is something for me to pick, that was the first time you
taught that course.
Feynman:
5
Yeah, I’m very confused, I have taught it three times now and I can’t
remember.
Weiner:
That was the first time, OK.
Feynman:
If you’ll wait a second, I have things by which I can remember. I have
the notebook
from that course. I have a notebook where I when I do my research or at
least I did — I
put the date on every page that I was doing things, as a result of you.
So if I look at that
thing I can remember better what I was doing at different times. There
are dates on the
pages.
Weiner:
Let’s do it. Is it here?
Feynman:
Yes, let’s try to see what we can do with it.
Weiner:
Really, that makes a lot of sense. We’re starting again and the break
was a very rewarding
one because we dug up four notebooks. For a minute let me just describe
them. These
are loose-leaf notebooks with each page containing your work, everything
that you asked
yourself. It is almost in a first person diary form asking yourself
questions and then
setting out an agenda for work, indicating you spoke to so-and-so today
and you got this
idea and then you want to pose yourself a certain agenda and then
tackling it. Each page
is dated. Some pages have a later date on them because you have gone
back to them and
said, well, this problem didn’t work out or it was solved in terms of
the work done on
June 5, 1968 or incorporated into that. And so this represents the
record of the day-to-
day work.
Feynman:
I actually did the work on the paper.
Weiner:
That s right. It wasn’t a record of what you had done but it is the
work.
6
Feynman:
It’s the doing it — it’s the scrap paper.
Weiner:
Well, the work was done in your head but the record of it is still here.
Feynman:
No, it’s not a record, not really, it’s working. You have to work on
paper and this is the
paper. OK?
Weiner:
OK. And one other thing, it’s not always dated. Sometimes they are
chronological on
certain problems but in other cases the pages are bound in these ring
notebooks on the
basis of a specific problem, so you might find ‘67 and then followed by
‘65 and
something else. What we are trying to do now is pick up from last time
so we are starting
with 1965.
Feynman:
Well, I got invited to Aspen, Colorado — there’s a school up there — for
a summer, and
I went up there with my wife and Carl and the maid. We got a little
house up there and it
was very comfortable. I started to do some work in a systematic way. I
don’t usually
work systematically but this time I decided that every morning at 9
o’clock I’d go to
work and I’d work — I don’t remember whether I worked a full day or a
half day but I
did come home for lunch. I guess I went home for lunch and came back in
the
afternoon. Anyway I worked certain -– solidly — and my problem was to
get into high
energy physics, into strong interaction physics. And so I wanted to
study everything in
the library and everything that was known. I was going to teach myself
the subject of
strong interactions and this notebook that I see in front of me gives me
a clue of what I
did. I wanted to study the problem to solve it, to understand the strong
interactions.
Weiner:
Was this something that you had been interested in doing for a while and
had put off?
Feynman:
Yeah, what happened was this, that in the early days of strong
interactions — I had
always been interested but I had worked on things as you know like
helium and other
7
things and you might wonder why because the fundamental problem really
was in the
strong interactions? I always felt, at least in the beginning, that the
real situation was
complicated, that we didn’t have enough clues from experiment, that we
were just
beginning to learn about it and there weren’t enough clues. So that it
wasn’t anything to
really work hard on because you could never solve it, you didn’t know
enough about it.
But as experiment continued, they got more and more clues. When Murray’s
SU3 theory
worked I was convinced that we really had enough clues and that we ought
to be able to
start to work on it. I wanted to start to work on it and so I had to
learn it again because I
hadn’t been paying a great deal of attention.
Weiner:
You hadn’t been reading the literature or keeping up or even –-
Feynman:
I had been. I’d gone to meetings and listened to it and so on. I don’t
know exactly what
my position is but I was easily confused by what people were talking
about. I didn’t
know exactly what was known. I wasn’t really up in front of it. So in
this time in Aspen I
decided that was what I was going to do. Before I went to Aspen I asked
one of my
students who was good — not my student, but one of the students, Bill
Wagner –- I
asked him what the biggest problem in high energy physics was. You see I
didn’t even
know what the problems were. And he told me the biggest problem was how
the high
energy cross sections varied with energy. If you want details I can tell
you.
Weiner:
Sure.
Feynman:
There’s a theorem called the Pomeranchuk’s Theorem which said that the
cross section
for protons and for anti-protons should be equal at infinite energy. And
it didn’t look at
all as if they were coming out equal. This was a serious problem, and
the whole theory of
high energy collisions was in difficulty. So I started out, with that in
mind that that would
be a hard problem — the high energy collisions. And then I went to this
thing and I
studied — I don’t know what I did, looked in books and worried about it.
Here are all
kinds of details which I don’t think we need to go into.
Weiner:
This started — the way you are dating this is June 5 — you’re using the
American style
of dating?
8
Feynman:
Right.
Weiner:
Let me just read that first sentence if I can because I think that this,
since it is the first
sentence of this problem, this is what you are identifying as the
problem in your first
sentence.
Feynman:
“The problem is to predict all strong interaction effects, masses of
stable particles,
resonances or apparent resonances, centers and widths, all reaction
cross sections, form
factors of currents,” and so on. Then I make some preliminary random
notes: what I’m
going to assume is true. I’m going to assume that i-spin is true, and so
on. I don’t know
that it’s worth going into.
Weiner:
No, I just wanted to see if I understood it. OK, so you’re setting up
the problem. This
becomes almost a classical form for you, from this point on.
Feynman:
Yes — “Assume that electricity and beta decay can be disregarded as not
essentially
involved, only as presenting information as to the effect of photons.
Some decision must
be made therefore as to what is meant by photon couplings and also
whether there is or
is not a correction to perfect electrodynamics. Hence e- e+ scattering
and so on is very
important to watch” — stuff like that.
Weiner:
I see. Then you set yourself a series of questions which follow.
Feynman:
“Question 1. In analyzing photon reactions and photon form factors must
we supply a
meaning to the current density at a space-time point to matrix elements
of such quantity,
such as the matrix element of j/x by j/y for photo reactions and so on?
This depends on
the unknown limitations in quantum electrodynamics,” and so on. This is
a little bit
disconcerting because I am not talking so much as reading.
9
Weiner:
No, I don’t want you to read. I just want to use this as a refresher
from now on. So at
the Aspen meeting then –-
Feynman:
Then I made up a program of things to do, so I can tell you what I was
trying to do. It
says: “Not necessarily in any order or need each be completed, but just
helter-skelter
problems.” This is one of the pages that says: “Look through the
literature on cross
sections, various energies, disintegration rates, and so on, and make a
big summary of all
known facts and explain as many as you can. Second, make a judgment on
SU3 an
evaluation, and on SU6. Decide on the influence of open channel widths
on mass
relations.” That was a thing that I knew about — well, I don’t know —
that SU3 rules
for the masses were beautiful but when there are different ways in which
particles can
disintegrate their masses should be shifted by that and why are the
rules so good. Then
“complete your already begun analysis of non-compact representations.”
That was
something I did very nicely, beautiful mathematics, but never amounted
to anything.
“Reformulate ordered calculus done in ferromagnetic problem to apply to
field theory.”
I’ve forgotten that completely. I don’t know what that is -– I mean I
know what it is but
I don’t know where it — maybe I should do that, that’s good.
Weiner:
You know that you didn’t though.
Feynman:
No, I know that I didn’t. “Recreate no closed loop, formulation and
study Yang-Mills
for SU3.” That would still be a good idea to do. This says “Not
important”; to the closed
loop formulation and it never was important. The closed loop formulation
was finally
published in the Wheeler volume
Weiner:
In the Wheeler Festschrift.
Feynman:
Yeah, and I had it worked out already. “Understand Dashen’s n-p mass
difference
calculation.” Dashen was a student who got his degree and in his degree
he calculated
the difference of mass of the neutron and proton by some kind of
complicated theory.
And. I felt uncomfortable because I was on the examining committee and I
really didn’t
10
understand it. I had been rather embarrassed from time to time on strong
interactions
because I didn’t understand — I wasn’t up. And his bothered the hell out
of me. It was a
brilliant insult to understand the n-p mass difference and to figure out
how he got it, so
it was very interesting to me. I wanted to understand that. It has since
turned out that it
wasn’t valid. That’s why I didn’t understand it. It has turned out that
many many things
that bothered me that I thought that I didn’t understand because I
didn’t know enough
about the subject, turned out that I didn’t understand them because they
weren’t logical,
they weren’t valid. And so that was a thing that nobody has ever
understood —
Dashen’s calculation — even Dashen.
Weiner:
But you can’t make a judgment as to whether your intuition is right
about it, if you have
doubts about, our own knowledge.
Feynman:
Not when you’re not very practiced, no — when you have no
self-confidence, which I
hadn’t. I had no self-confidence. I was learning and so I couldn’t say,
I don’t understand
it therefore — I couldn’t tell when I couldn’t understand it. In fact, I
thought at this time
because I put it there that it was sound, but it wasn’t sound. Now I
have “Summary of
Data.” I start this data summary that I suggested.
Weiner:
That‘s the first problem you set yourself.
Feynman:
Yes, and I made this data summary, and I found out by plotting the cross
sections
against one over the square root of the momentum that they were all
straight lines and
that they went to infinite energy; the proton cross section could very
well agree with the
anti-proton cross section. This is infinite energy, and if one over the
square root of the
cross section [???] the energy can come to a constant. So I decided then
that the particle
and anti-particle cross sections could be equal and that Wagner was
wrong. There was no
problem there. Everything was all right. Not many other people knew that
at the time
but I didn’t know that not many other people knew that at the time so I
didn’t publish
these plots or anything.
Weiner:
This follows remarkably soon after.
11
Feynman:
Yeah, a few days
Weiner:
Were you still at Aspen?
Feynman:
See it says “Summary.” I don’t see much — “High Energy Physics, high
energy cross
sections” — I don’t see much mysterious here. “Acts much like a blackish
partly-
transparent material,” and so on and so on. Then I ask myself some
questions.
Weiner:
Well, for people. “Why is nuclear material so opaque?” which follows
from this. But was
all, this done at Aspen too?
Feynman:
Yes, this is all at Aspen.
Weiner:
Did. You have the time to do all that?
Feynman:
I did it, every day I worked. I just finished telling you. Here are the
dates, so it starts on
the 5th — “Problem” and by the 8th I have decided there is no problem.
All right, I
worked three days hard. There wasn’t much work. Then there was a
conference — well,
here’s a conference at Stony Brook. Then, while I was studying at Aspen,
I found a
paper by Amati and Fubini which I have marked here in 1965, “excellent
paper, well
worth studying.” It turns out that was correct — people are still
working on Amati and
Fubini, but they didn’t notice it at that time. They didn’t pay much
attention in the early
days, but I noticed it was OK, and I studied this paper and tried to
understand it, and
that is what a lot of this is about.
Weiner:
This is still Aspen?
12
Feynman:
Yeah, it’s always Aspen.
Weiner:
What was the total time you were there? Do you recall?
Feynman:
We can tell the dates by months.
Weiner:
I didn’t realize that. That is why I was asking. I thought it was a
pretty tough thing to
condense into a week or two.
Feynman:
Then I discovered — Murray had current algebra formulas, and there were
some
questions about commentators of currents. There were some questions
about things
called Schwinger terms and I found a much neater way in my opinion to
describe what is
equivalent to these commutation equations as properties of the
scattering amplitude,
symmetries of the scattering amplitude, and that was worked out here in
8/65. That is
what this is about — then this checking Murray and showing that seagull
terms screw up
Murray but they don’t screw up —
Weiner:
Why do you call them seagull terms?
Feynman:
There are things called Feynman diagrams. And when you have a diagram of
a certain
type — people have given names to diagrams of certain types so they can
talk to each
other — and a diagram that looks like this looks vaguely like a seagull.
Weiner:
I see, OK. It’s not Joe Seagull. [Perhaps Jonathan Seagull]
Feynman:
No, it’s nothing to do with Joe Seagull. So this is all part of
developing that idea. I do a
13
lot of studying and understanding what I can’t understand of other
people.
Weiner:
You had everything you needed there in the library?
Feynman:
Yes, in the library, and all I am doing there is leaning. I’m just
learning. This is top in
time reversal. I’m trying to learn the rules for time reversal. That is
January 1966 — that
is later. I’m back now. Then I tried to make a relativistic — there are
a lot of theories in
here that didn’t work, so you don’t care about all that stuff.
Weiner:
Well, it would be good to make sort of an inventory of the topics over
time — not now;
it’s a waste on the tape — because it shows where you are.
Feynman:
This date is wrong. It must be ‘66.
Weiner:
Take a look at the next item and see –-
Feynman:
I’m sure it’s January, ‘66 but I’m calling it ‘65. This is nice. Around
this time in January I
got a demonstration which I have always found is very pretty to explain
why relativistic
quantum mechanics implies a need for positron, anti-particles, and the
relation between
spin and statistics. There are other explanations of that — you know,
particles that spin a
half obey Fermi statistics, anti-symmetric wave functions, even spins
obey symmetric,
and the wave function is symmetrical. That’s true, it’s been proven by
Pauli and also
earlier by myself, but never in an elementary way, and I always felt as
Mark Kac says, if
you can state a theorem in an elementary way, then the proof should be
understandable.
If this theorem and its assumptions are all understandable, then the
proof should be
understandable. So I tried very hard to understand the proof that we
need — Bose
statistics for spin zero or even spin and Fermi statistics for odd spin
— I thought I did
pretty well. Now, here’s another conference on high energy in Stony
Brook. Do you
want to go through this notebook this way?
Weiner:
14
Yes, I think it's OK. I don’t think we should do it exclusively on this,
but just to fill in
what you don’t remember without looking at this.
Feynman:
It sometimes says ‘66 and sometimes ‘65 — it must be one year or the
other. I guess I
don’t know what year I’m in. Anyway — Rochester ‘67, but that’s later.
It’s just not put
in together. I put the conferences together and I put the date in next
to it. I took notes in
conferences and put the notes in the notebook.
Weiner:
That s an awful lot of work — of learning –-
Feynman:
These notes I don’t pay much attention to and never did. It turned out
that the notes I
took at conferences were never very useful for anything, and I don’t
take this much
notes at conferences any more.
Weiner:
There are two things: one is notes you take and the other is work you do
at conferences.
But, in either case, here for these years, not much of it ended up,
though, in a paper for
those years. There may have been a tremendous time lag.
Feynman:
No, here for example, 8/66, “New Theory of Eight Current Components” —
big deal.
OK, grind, grind, grind, grind, grind, grind, and grind — final result:
“Therefore I have
too many densities but even with” and so on — no, it seems I still do.
End of line.
Weiner:
Bethe on nuclear matter, ‘66.
Feynman:
Yeah, I heard a talk by Bethe on nuclear matter. I never worked on that.
This is coming
from the back. Now, in the meantime — I was just looking —
Weiner:
15
Some of this is ‘65 again.
Feynman:
Yeah, it starts back here also on the other side. The theoretical work
that I did was in the
back — calculations, some theory of scattering. In 1965 I decided in the
ninth month,
that’s September, that the theory of high energy total cross sections
could be best
understood by just diffraction of pie plates hitting each other, and I
worked the details
out to show how it worked and what problems there were and so on. These
are all things
that didn't work — well, they did work, that was true. What I really was
doing was
teaching myself. I wasn’t interested in publishing at all. But I did
discover a lot of things.
You see I thought everybody else knew all these things. In the meantime
I was trying, to
teach myself. So I learned a lot of things that weren’t known, or a few
things that weren't
well known. And I checked — things that people have noticed later as
being simple,
sometimes I noticed a little ahead. But the main thing I was doing was
teaching myself.
Weiner:
Did you find any particular person in the period that seemed to have the
best overall
clarity of the subject as far as you could tell? I’m not talking about
an individual idea or a
paper, but someone –-
Feynman:
No, because I’m soon off on my own, worrying about my own way. The best
thing was
the Amati-Fubini theory which I sort of learned but didn’t –-
Weiner:
But also the field was changing pretty rapidly even as you were
learning.
Feynman:
Yes, most of the things I would write down and then somebody would
publish it. You
see I didn't know how much was known and how much was not known so it
was more a
matter of learning. For me to learn, I read a little bit and I work out
the rest. I don’t
really read a lot of what the other guy does. I read what his
assumptions are and if they
seem reasonable then I work out the conclusions. I don’t need to read
how he works out
the conclusions most of the time. But mostly what I was reading — you
see I had a
certain attitude the only thing that counts are the experiment. I wasn’t
interested in
theory. I wasn’t reading theory, never, except for this Amati-Fubini
paper, for example. I
would read almost always excremental results, experimental situations,
and make up my
own obvious theory for it, you see. So that was my attitude.
16
Weiner:
But wasn’t there any theory in the period which seemed to dominate the
field, one that
you knew?
Feynman:
Oh yeah, there were things like SU3 and so on.
Weiner:
But you knew that so you didn’t have to read any more of that?
Feynman:
That’s right, that was a known, but I didn’t know how to evaluate that.
You see that was
a theory which is an approximate theory. There was what we call SU2,
isotopic spin
symmetry. That was perfectly all right and I knew that that was OK and
that to read that,
that was summarize able in a few words. There was an extension called
SU3 or the eight-
fold way which is only approximate. That was much harder to evaluate —
when
something is approximate and it doesn’t fit exactly, then you say, is it
really valid or are
you just fooling yourself? So I had often set myself in these notes the
problem of
evaluating SU3.
Weiner:
In terms of some specific problem though?
Feynman:
And then there was another idea called the quark model which also needed
to be
evaluated. I finally decided to make up my mind, about that in 1970 and
started to
calculate and work on it after I gave a course. I gave a course — this
is out to time but
it’s the hell with you — it must have been 1969 or 1966 or something
like that. And at
the end of the course I was always feeling confused as to whether I took
care of them —
the students should learn everything so they can read the papers, right?
And I was not
feeling confident in the subject. You know I told you I was worried
about giving it. So
after I gave my course I had about two weeks left. I went all around and
I said, listen this
is what I talked about, is there anything else? So I went to Zweig and I
told him. He said,
well, you haven’t told them much about the quark model…So I say, Oh, OK.
So I sat
down and started to evaluate it myself and I found — I think we can find
it in here —
some regularities among the masses. I did it with this mass squared
because I had some
good physical reason to believe that it was going to turn out to be a
little different than
17
the way other people did it. And I gave them two mimeographed pages of
notes about
the mass regularities of the resonances. I was very impressed by the
regularities, and they
were regularities that were like those of Zweig except for a slightly
different way of
looking at them in some respects, namely to use the square of the mass
instead of the
mass. And I was rather impressed — I saw that, I should have taken care
of Zweig’s
stuff, so this was what I gave them. And this particular note of the
masses, I sent it to
Rosenfeld — I talked to Rosenfeld up at Berkeley some time later and
told him about it
and he said he’d like to see it, so I sent him the same thing, two
copies for him and
Tripp, about these regularities. And there was a Hawaiian there by the
name of Tuan.
The next thing I hear is that Mr. Tuan is publishing a paper on all
these things and he
thinks they are very impressive and he wants me to have my name on the
paper with
him. Now, we are allowed to say things that are personal because it is
all hidden, right?
Weiner:
Right.
Feynman:
So it was very annoying to me. I didn’t think it was important enough to
publish it — I
think it was interesting, but it was the kind of thing you give your
students when you are
teaching this class — but he has all the stuff published. What can I do?
I can’t let him —
he can’t deny that I did all this — he says I did all this stuff and
he’s taking it — in fact,
it was 99% me plus some errors, and it was misrepresenting what I was
trying to say, so I
was kind of forced into correcting it and becoming a party to the
publication. So we
published this note. I am not ashamed of this note. I’m just telling you
the
circumstances. I would never have published it if it wasn’t for Mr. Tuan
wanting to
publish it. OK?
Weiner:
I see, and you saw it in a prepublication form, or was it the
manuscript?
Feynman:
Yeah, a manuscript. He sent it and said, this is what I want to publish
and I would like to
have your name on it if it would please you, and so on.
Weiner:
But he invited you.
Feynman:
18
Oh yes, of course, there was no attempt to cover anything. It was
perfectly straight. The
thing that was embarrassing to me was that I didn’t think it was worth
publishing yet I
couldn’t say to him, well, leave me out, you publish it, you think it’s
so goddamned
important, because it wasn’t published right. It was screwed up. It was
called mine and it
was screwed up partly.
Weiner:
So you had to make it right.
Feynman:
First I made it right and then I said, all right, I’ll put — it wasn’t
serious. I’m just telling
you that I wouldn’t have — that the material — I can find that thing for
you probably,
the little pieces of paper that contain all that’s in this paper that I
gave to my class as
notes. And it was just because Zweig told me to pay attention to this —
then I got
interested in evaluating it more in detail, a few years later, because
it seemed to me more
important. And that’s when I wrote the paper with Kislinger and
Ravandau(?). We
wanted to evaluate the –-
Weiner:
You acknowledge in the paper, “One of us (RPF) would like to thank
Professor George
Zweig for discussions concerning regularities in baryon mass spectra.”
This is the pager,
“Some Comments on Baryonic States.” Who is Pakvasa? He is in on it too.
Feynman:
I don’t know. Another guy from Hawaii. I didn’t remember both names.
Weiner:
That’s an interesting background of that, and that is what started from
the course. I see.
Feynman:
Yeah, that was just in a course that I had given. Now we find the notes
for the course
somewhere. That was later, of course. Here in 1966 I am working on a
theory of vector
mesons and currents which I didn’t feel meant anything in the end. I did
an awful lot of
work and it didn’t seem to me that it was significant. By that I mean, I
had a little more
troubles than I had successes. Of course, by doing this I was learning
an awful lot. The
way to learn is to have a —
19
Weiner:
The terms you use are more the characteristic of your style like “is
so-and—so real?”
Feynman:
Or “are you fooling yourself?”
Weiner:
Or “What is the real physical meaning of so-and-so,” — and this seems to
be very often.
It is hard for me to say it accurately from a random look but this is a
starting point for
many of these papers. In other words, “is this a real thing? Is it
true?”
Feynman:
Yeah. Also at that time in 1965 a paper by Adler came out in which he’d
gotten some
relationships from Murrays current commentators and he was able to
obtain the weak
axial coupling constant proton in terms of pion scattering cross
sections. And that
impressed me because that’s the relation of two numbers and my principle
always was:
only those theoretical papers which get a relationship between
experimental numbers are
worth saying any attention to and this succeeded. That is what got me
interested in the
current commentators and how I got this other method which I have just
finished
describing about describing the current commentators in another way on
the properties
of the scattering amplitude which I felt was more sound.
Weiner:
So that was the theoretical paper which you had —
Feynman:
But I never wrote that up, those amplitudes instead of current
commutators.
Weiner:
What standard do you use in judging whether something is worth writing
up?
Feynman:
I don’t know. I’m a little conservative I think. I think a lot of these
things would have
been worth publishing, and Mr. Tuan, for example, forced me to publish,
which might
have been worthwhile. It wouldn’t have been any harm not to have
published.
20
Weiner:
The way you outline having read so-and-so papers and now reading over
your shoulder
in your notebooks, the way you write in the notebook and the way you
work it out is
very similar to your style in the papers, so it is not a question of
taking these little scraps
and now putting some words around them, because, in fact, the whole
argument and the
logic of it is developed right here in the notebooks. So sometimes it
seems to me it
would not be such a leap to go from the notes —
Feynman:
No, the question is: is it worthwhile, and so on. It’s not the question
of the difficulty of
writing the paper.
Weiner:
That’s what I guess I’m getting at — what is your definition of a
worthwhile paper?
Feynman:
I don’t know. I have no idea.
Weiner:
Do you mean in terms of fundamental insight, of really new knowledge, as
compared to
a little addendum?
Feynman:
Right, right.
Weiner:
The literature is full of addenda.
Feynman:
I know. Sometimes it is just a matter of writing it over again in a
different way and it is
like translating it from one language to another in many respects. This
particular item
that we are talking about — the current commentators in terms of
amplitudes might
have been significant and I should perhaps not have an excuse for not
publishing it
except perhaps laziness. It was a point. And more important was the work
in 1967 that I
found here that would correspond to a lot of the results on duality
which are found
21
much later and the theory of Regge poles as due to a series of sum on
resonances which
later because the Van Hoff formula. That was earlier. That was
important, and I should
have published that so that other people would know about it. It would
have been useful
to them but I don’t know if I was selfish or lazy or what, but I didn‘t
publish it. I
thought it was kind of simple-minded. I don’t know why I don’t publish
more things.
Weiner:
How much of this got out in the same way —
Feynman:
But all the time I’m doing this I think I’m not getting anywhere.
Weiner:
Well, maybe you set yourself a different —
Feynman:
Yeah, the goals are high. The goals are high.
Weiner:
How much of this got out to the students? You gave one example of
something that was
—
Feynman:
I usually talk about these things in my lectures. Oh, I gave several
talks in seminars on
this theory of Regge exchanges, and Murray noticed it and we discussed
some things, but
it’s a funny thing that I don’t understand — among the students, there
are lots of
graduate students working and so on, and I’ll give these seminars, and
there’s never
anybody ever picks up any of my ideas to follow up unless the rest of
the world does. I
mean, at Caltech I’ll give a seminar and that was good — it has the
duality rules and it
had a lot of stuff in it — and they don’t pay any attention at the time.
It’s because I
present — my methods are different — and they can’t follow it by the
standard ways or
something. I don’t know what it is. I don’t understand it.
Weiner:
Do they follow it while it’s happening or is it just that they don’t
realize the significance
of it?
22
Feynman:
I don’t know.
Weiner:
How do you know? How do you measure anyway –-
Feynman:
— that they don’t follow it up, that they don’t do anything.
Weiner:
That you can measure because you can see the literature. Maybe they
don’t understand
what you’re saying.
Feynman:
Probably not, but they have every chance to ask questions. I try my best
to explain it.
Weiner:
You can’t ask questions if you don’t understand that much.
Feynman:
Well, I doubt that I’m that obscure. I may be obscure because I’m using
a different
language or something. I have a reputation for being fairly clear. I
don’t understand it.
Weiner:
It’s an interesting problem. Here you’re giving them all the goodies,
right?
Feynman:
Well, it seems to me that at times I’ve explained things that I had
right and I was on the
right track, but they’re not complete though. They’re not elegant
mathematically. The
axioms are not sharp.
Weiner:
That would, it seems to me, be even more stimulating to someone because
–-
23
Feynman:
Yes, more or less like this, it’ll work more or less like that. WINR:
And then he picks it
up as a problem to make it work out. Well, I guess I’m projecting into a
situation. It
might be good sometime to talk to a few of these people objectively and
ask them what
their reaction is.
Feynman:
Well, the best way to find out what I was doing in 1966 and 1967 is to
take this
notebook. I was teaching myself strong interaction theory. That’s what
it amounts to,
and working on the problems and discovering that I can’t [???]. [???]
results are very hard
to understand, and so on, because, and so forth.
Weiner:
All this time, was it possible that there —
Feynman:
Hyperon decay p-wave, another try that doesn’t work. Nobody has solved
it. Maybe
recently there’s a possible lead that they’ve solved it, but it’s still
not solved. So there are
a lot of things. I was teaching myself problems, teaching myself high
energy physics and
working on many other problems in high energy physics in those years.
Weiner:
And none of it ended up in those years in the literature but you did
talk about it, you
communicated it in conferences —
Feynman:
— to students, to Murray, we discussed it.
Weiner:
Did any get involved in conference proceedings during the period, do you
know?
Feynman:
No, I don’t say anything at conferences, no.
24
Weiner:
You wouldn’t say anything at conferences; you’d listen at conferences.
You’d question?
Feynman:
Well, what could I say, I have a theory and I myself don’t think it’s
really very good. Or
else I think it’s rather incomplete, and so on. But I tell the students
or something — I
told them when I’ve given a seminar here at Caltech but those things are
never taken up.
After all, I didn’t take them up myself, did I, so what the hell? What
can I complain
about? So that’s what is happening there in those years.
Weiner:
Now let’s on the dates in ‘65, what was the time period you were in
Aspen? We didn’t
systematically do those dates.
Feynman:
I was just there during the summer.
Weiner:
Was it June, July, and August?
Feynman:
Something like that.
Weiner:
And you were working mostly alone except in the conference sessions
listening? Was
there anyone -–?
Feynman:
Well, I did talk to people there but I always work alone. There were no
conference
sessions at Aspen.
Weiner:
It was just a summer residence. This is where Uhlenbeck goes, right —
the same place?
25
Feynman:
Yeah, Uhlenbeck wasn’t there that year.
Weiner:
I ought to go there some summer just to see what it’s like, just to
understand it. Are we
going to be interrupted soon?
Feynman:
Shall we eat lunch, maybe?
Weiner:
Just for the record we did not have lunch because we were denied lunch.
We had missed
our cue and we will have it later. We decided that you will take a
better look at the period
of learning and of deciding what you knew and what the important
problems were and
of working them out, which didn’t end up in the published literature,
and that the best
way you can do that is to look through your notes.
Feynman:
I’ve done that. I’ve seen that book. And I’m saying that we don’t have
to use these
notebooks any more. I don’t like this interview where I look at the
thing and say that on
this page there’s such-and-such.
Weiner:
Oh no, I wanted you to talk to me.
Feynman:
So I’ll talk to you now and forget the notebooks.
Weiner:
All right, so we talked of the whole sequence of sort of a tuning-up, a
transition. By the
way, would you regard it as a transition?
Feynman:
Yeah, I would say I was really learning the subject and gaining
self-confidence which
took two years before I felt I knew what everybody else knew and could
do it as well as
26
they.
Weiner:
And you were doing it partially so you’d have something to tell
students?
Feynman:
No, it was the other way around — I would decide to give a course on
this subject in
order to make sure that I learned everything about it. But even when I
gave a course I
was not confidant that I knew everything that was important. So when I’d
give a course,
I’d always ask — what I call the experts around here whether I included
what they would
have included, did I do enough on dispersion theory, what about
bootstraps? Ah,
bootstraps aren’t any good, they would tell me, and they were the
experts on bootstraps
so that’s it. Then one year, I don’t remember what year, I gave a course
in which I said
that the only theories that I would discuss were theories which gave
results which agree
with experiments, you know, that had consequence in experiments. And
that made it so
easy to deal with the theory — this is the way I always look at it
anyway — you see the
thing is, I told them it is not necessary for us to learn all the
fashionable ways of solving,
of working on problems if they don’t get anywhere with these fashions.
We would just
work on the part that works. And there’s not much that work. So it
turned out to be
relatively easy. And then I thought I’d left out a lot of theory and
these other guys, the
experts, would get angry at me. They want their students to know all
this. I always had a
crazy lack of self-confidence in this field. And then when I would go to
them and I
would talk to them about this, they’d say, “That’s all right. It doesn’t
work.” And then I
felt better, you see. I had picked only the things that did work.
Weiner:
You weren’t trying to do a contemporary history of the field — you were
trying to sort
out the things that would be most useful to the students.
Feynman:
But I thought maybe they would need to know these fashionable methods
which I didn’t
see working, but apparently they weren’t very good and they slowly sunk
into the
quagmire of confusion.
Weiner:
You mentioned the experts around here at Caltech — Zweig, Murray
Gell-Mann — who
else?
27
Feynman:
Zacharias and Koichi(?).
Weiner:
What was your contact during this period with experimentalists — not
just reading the
literature, but were you in close touch with anyone who was working with
the big
accelerators where the stuff was coming out?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
And they didn’t look for you either?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
How about the other guys who you were in touch with here — the theorists
— were
they closer? Yes, they had to be.
Feynman:
Yeah, they would run to Berkeley every — Murray would take a trip to
Berkeley and
come back with the latest data to worry about it, but I wasn’t in that
condition.
Weiner:
But at the conferences, many of them would be conferences where the
experimental
results would be —
Feynman:
In conferences everything that was known, experimentally and
theoretically, was
described and I would always attend these conferences and try to
understand as much as
possible.
28
Weiner:
Right. Now how long would you say that that period —
Feynman:
For example, I paid no attention to Regge trajectories because it was
one of these
theoretical things until the day at one conference a man gave a report
which showed a
whole series of resonances, called RSTU resonances, along a straight
line in the mass
square. So I decided that that phenomenon I must explain and that the
slope of this line,
an intercept of it was related to a power law of a cross section — there
were two facts I
gotta explain. So I started — I found out that if you had a sum of
resonances in
sequence and you exchanged each one you would get a power law and I
understood it —
and that’s what I mean by the Van Hoff method of representing. It’s
sometimes called
the Feynman-Van Hoff method of representing Regge trajection by a sum.
And
Blankenbletter was very impressed by this. I had explained it to him at
a talk I gave at
Santa Barbara, I think, or Santa Cruz. And so it was all right. It’s
just that I didn’t publish
it. I mean I told about it but I didn’t publish it. But it was very
early and it was very
simple. It came from experiment and it came from the meetings. That’s
just an example
of why a meeting to me is more important. Whereas I could have learned
all I wanted
about Regge theory from the great inventors of it, by Gell-Mann who was
right around
the corner, I never paid any attention to it. It seemed to me high-class
theoretical
complication until an apparent experimental fact which turned out that
some of those
resonances there — but anyway that apparent experimental fact seemed
right and it
works pretty well, and ever since then it was my problem to understand
that. So I’ve
always taken an attitude that I have only to explain the regularities of
nature — I don’t
have to explain the methods of my friends. I don’t have to learn the
systems and
methods of my friends — only the regularities of nature — and that’s a
very
economizing way of proceeding.
Weiner:
How long would you characterize this period in which you were learning,
doing this
kind, of work where there were no published results? Would you say
through ‘67 pretty
much?
Feynman:
Something like that, yeah. That’s right — I see now there were no
published results but
there was an awful lot of work going on. I had just forgotten what I was
doing. Because
the transformation — when you remind me how unsure I was of myself in
pre-‘65, I
didn’t even know the subject, and then when I taught courses I was
always making
excuses and was afraid they would laugh at me, you know? But I wanted to
give the
course and they were all delighted, and this was serious. I really
believed that, and I can’t
29
conceive of it anymore, because now I feel like I know the subject.
Weiner:
Well, let’s talk about that course.
Feynman:
I don’t remember what year it was.
Weiner:
I think I saw you in Santa Barbara in the summer of ‘68. The idea of the
course came up
apparently in the spring of ‘68 or the following fall. Do you recall
that, or I’ll recall if you
don’t — what you told me then was that at a faculty meeting, you had
wanted to get into
it —
Feynman:
Yeah, I remember the whole story now.
Weiner:
— and that you spent the summer really reading, but you told me at the
time with a great
deal of uncertainty on your part.
Feynman:
I’ve lost all that — it’s marvelous.
Weiner:
But I had known at the time you told me of how much you already had been
going. I
mean there are a couple of notebooks here filled, indicating that it
gave you enough
confidence to volunteer.
Feynman:
Well, I couldn’t have done it otherwise. I didn’t know anything. How
could I?
Weiner:
I see. But that fills it in because it was a little bit distorted the
way I’d understood it
30
before.
Feynman:
Well, from 1965 I started to work on high energy physics and I’ve been
working on it
intensively ever since.
Weiner:
Now let’s talk about this contact with experimentalists. You just said
that you had not
during this earlier period — ‘65 to ‘67, let’s say, even into ‘68 — had
this contact. When
I saw you, you had just come back from SLAC, where you did have direct
contact.
Maybe you can reconstruct that — I can help you a little bit because –-
Feynman:
I can remember that cold very well.
Weiner:
First of all, how was it that you came to go up there?
Feynman:
Let me put it professionally rather than how I came to visit my sister
at SLAC. My sister
was up there at Palo Alto so I often visited there.
Weiner:
I thought she was at Syracuse.
Feynman:
Long ago. She moved to Palo Alto and worked for the Haines Research
Laboratory.
Now she’s in Colorado in Boulder. But I visit her often and it was easy
for me to go to
SLAC, which is right around the corner from her house. It was just a few
blocks away.
During the summer of ‘68 I had another summer, just like Aspen, but
instead of going to
Aspen I went to Santa Barbara, and I worked on something. I went and
walked on the
beach and every morning. I studied. I went into a little room that we
had in this house
and I worked. And what I wanted to understand was the collision at very
high energy. It
struck me as possible that at extreme energies things would be simple.
There was
another reason: everybody else up to that time had concentrated on what
they called
two-body reactions, and all the theories were based on two-body
reactions and so on.
31
Now in nature, I knew that it just wasn’t two-body reactions. When you
hit things harder
more [???] particles came out until in fact it was much more likely that
more particles
came out than two, and I felt that they’d gotten a little bit too
concentrated on two-body
reactions, that equations were open — they would have two bodies, then
they would
have three bodies, but that’s too complicated. There’s a certain thing
called unitarily, that
one of the properties of the two-body reactions is related to the
many-body reactions, so
you can’t just do it by two bodies at a time. And so I knew that we had
to do many body
collisions, high energy collisions, and I got interested in exactly what
happened at very
high energy. And I had some idea from cosmic ray data. In fact, I went
to visit at Santa
Barbara at the University. I went to visit the University a few times
and I would go to the
library and read about the cosmic ray data at high energy, and there was
just a little bit of
machine data — the energies were [???]. And what happens is that first
the cross section
is more or less independent of energy, and second that the transverse
momentum is
limited. So I thought, well, what else can I say, and then I used as a
model, field theory,
for reasons that I won’t explain. I tried to work out what happened if
there was a field
which consisted of two parts, one rushing to the right and one rushing
to the left, and I
took a limit when they were very heavy when the equations of field
theory get simpler.
So I worked all that out — the theory of the equations at very high
relative momentum
— and found indeed they did get simpler, that electro-dynamics could be
expressed
much more simply and all the equations would be simpler but that there
was a scaling
effect, that the equations looked as if they had the properties — if you
did the same
problem at a higher momentum, two different momenta, high and double
high, OK —
that the equation was the same. And that would mean that if you had a
certain spray of
particles –- say a certain number of particles took two-thirds of the
momentum of the
collision, then that would be the same probability, to take two-thirds
of the collision,
than double the energy. That seemed obvious from the field theory, so I
began to think
that that might in fact be the case, and I started to work on things. I
worked on different
models — the Bremsstrahlung model, and so on. And I had some trouble
with the small
momentum particle. There seemed to be a lot of them, and one possibility
was that there
were a lot of them, at the small momentum. And I studied that and
concluded at first —
you see, all the cosmic ray people said there was a gap at stall
momentum so when I saw
I was getting a bump at small momentum I was very worried about it. So I
studied it
because I was worried about it and then I realized that it wouldn’t be a
bump the way the
cosmic ray people plotted it. It would be flat and they said it was a
gap — there were no
particles in the low energy region. So I went and looked at the data,
and it looked like to
me that it was statistical, that it was just an accident. They only had
a few cases in the
data that I looked at, and it wasn’t clearly a gap for my money. It was
statistics. It was
luck. A few of them had a gap but it could have been like the chance
that that was one in
half or something like that. So I concluded that it was uniform or that
it might “bump”
in the middle — that it was possible, but I wasn’t sure.
Weiner:
The data that you were talking about here —
32
Feynman:
In the meantime I had invented — yeah, in cosmic rays. I had looked in
the library —
Weiner:
OK.
Feynman:
And all this stuff was gradually forming, but I wasn’t sure. I had all
these models and the
variables, the proportionality and scaling and so on, but I wasn’t sure
of everything, you
see, of how the things went. And I had this method of thinking which is
called partons
— because I started with field theory I needed a name for the particles
of the field and
the constituents and I called them partons. And you can even find the
phrase in there
where I call them partons on the right date if you want to.
Weiner:
Great.
Feynman:
And I started to think this way which was very different from the way
many people had
been thinking. It was very hard to think of two collisions of two
things, neither of which
was clear in my mind — each proton was complicated and the two had to
hit each other.
I would walk on the beach and think. It was very hard. And then I went
to SLAC to visit
and they told me about an experiment in which they scattered electrons
off on protons
at very high energy, and that’s half as complicated because the electron
has no — we
know the structure but the other we don’t know, so it’s only half
unknown. And they
told me about it, and they told me that Bjorken said — Bjorken was out
of town at the
time, but he said — leave it right there and I can pick that one right
up.
Weiner:
We’re after lunch now and we resume right after SLAC and the last person
you
mentioned was Bjorken.
Feynman:
Yes, the fellows that showed me the scattering of electrons from protons
said that it was
much bigger than they expected and I didn’t know whether it was supposed
to be bigger
33
or smaller or what. And then they said that Bjorken had said that there
was a certain
scaling rule which is now known as Bjorken’s Scaling, that something
depended only on
something else, and that the data fitted very well. He was out of town,
but would I
explain to them please why he thought there should be such scaling? So I
said, why
didn’t, you let him explain? Well, they said, he is out of town and he
explained it very
complicatedly — you always explain things nicely. I said, I don’t know
up from down or
what the hell to expect about this. So then that night I went to some
topless bar or
something like that. I was in a motel, and I didn’t sleep very well, and
at two o’clock in
the morning I began to think about this. I realized that my part-time
pictures would
work very well and I took a little piece of paper next to a lamp and
worked out this thing
and saw where the scaling came from that Bjorken had predicted. I
realized that that was
why he had predicted it. So the next day I came and I said, “Yeah, I
know why Bjorken
said there is scaling,” and I explained it. Drell was there and other
guys, and they said,
“Oh, I never understood why the high energy wave functions were so
important.” So I
understand it now, yes, very simple, so I explained it. And the next day
after that Bjorken
came back from his trip somewhere and it turned out that I had explained
the
phenomenon that he called scaling but not by the way he had found it, by
another
completely different way — this point of view of parton, which is
physically very very
simple — it is that the electron scattering can see the constituents of
the proton. And so
I was quite excited. But one thing they showed me there, they said. “But
in your
interpretation there would be many partons of low momentum. There would
get to be a
very large number of partons of low momentum according to this data.” I
got very
excited then. I said, “That’s right, though, that’s right. The high
energy collisions of
hadrons indicate that that’s the way it goes.” But I couldn’t explain to
them why because
I would have had to explain this half understood theory, but that
confirmed me that my
views were right then. The thing that I had been worrying about whether
the number
would go up with small momentum, well, here was the direct measure and
it did go up
so everything was clear. And then I came back and I worried about this
theory of high
energy scattering, also in terms of current commentators, and all the
rest of the things,
and also continued to worry, still in Santa Barbara, about the high
energy collisions but
much more confident that the ideas were right. And then I worked out how
the high
energy collisions should go — and I don’t know if I was invited or
somebody asked me
if I would come to Berkeley, and I said, yes, and I’d give a talk
because I had these ideas
how the high energy collisions go. I told my wife before I went that I
was going to
Berkeley where they have machines, all the apparatus, and they know just
how the
collisions go. I don’t know how the collisions go. I have a theory about
how they should
go, but I’m going to go up there and give this lecture. As soon as the
lecture is over
somebody is going to stand up and say, “But that’s ridiculous. They
don’t go like that at
all.” So I’ll know if I’m all wrong, or if they don’t object right away
to it, I’ll know it’s
right. It’s a big moment. So I went and I gave my talk in Berkeley at a
seminar. I said
how the collisions should go. Of course, they don’t understand me
exactly right away the
first time. So to understand better the various experiments with that,
they said, “How do
you think it should go in such-and-such a situation?” I said, “Cross
sections should be
constant.” So Paul [?] said, “That’s right.” Another guy said, “How
should it be?” “It
34
should be constant.” “That’s right and it’s been puzzling us. It’s the
only cross section
that’s constant that we measured. And then somebody else went afterwards
— three
people asked the questions and each one I got right. Then the fourth guy
asked me a
question, and I said, “It should be constant in energy.” He says, “I’m
sorry, it varies by a
factor of 16 when you change the energy by a factor of 2.” So I said,
“That’s an
experimental error.” And he’d gotten so convinced from the three that
worked that if
anything worked at all, if it wasn’t obviously ridiculous it must be
right that there was
something wrong. So I said it was experimental error. Everybody started
to laugh but I
kept a completely straight face and they realized that I was serious,
that I believed what I
was talking about that this can’t be true what he had told me. And then
there was a lot of
noise and excitement from that, you see, because it was a little nervy
to tell the guy when
he says it changes by a factor of 16 that it shouldn’t have changed and
it doesn’t change
at all. And so some other experimenter asked me something and I got that
one right.
And then Rosenfeld said to the man who had asked me the one that didn’t
fit, “I don’t
think you explained your experiment to Mr. Feynman correctly. You said
it was this way,
but actually how could it be that way?” “Oh no, no, it was this way,” he
said, “That’s
right.” So they rearranged it — it was described to me wrong, it turned
out. When he
had described it right, yes, it should fell in line, so it was due to a
misunderstanding, not
an experimental error. But this confirmed me that I had a good idea, you
see, and that
everything was right, and I came home to my wife and told her the
excitement and that
everything worked. And after the meeting, after the conference,
Mandelstam came up to
me and he said, “Hey, how do you do that? How would you have the
confidence — it
was so exciting — to tell a guy it was experimental error?” He said, “If
I had a theory
and the guy told me it didn’t fit with the experiment, I’d never have
the confidence.” I
said, “That’s because you’d never had the right theory.”
Weiner:
And you had the confidence to tell him that.
Feynman:
Yeah, I was just joking.
Weiner:
So when I caught you in Santa Barbara it was in between the Berkeley and
the SLAC
thing?
Feynman:
In between, right. The Santa Barbara year, therefore, was very
profitable. One of the
other reasons it was very useful was that there was a — let’s say was it
at Berkeley? No,
could it be at Santa Cruz? I must have given a talk at Santa Cruz — some
short time later
35
I gave a talk at Santa Cruz — it was the same ideas.
Weiner:
While I’m switching the tape –- This is side two of the first cassette.
As far as pinning it
down, were you invited up to SLAC to give some high school talk or
something? This is
what you said to me. There was some reason, some other talk that you
were going to
give.
Feynman:
Oh yes.
Weiner:
And you told me back then that that was the excuse essentially to get
you up there so
they could show you the stuff. I don’t know if it helps fix the Santa
Cruz thing or not.
Feynman:
No, no, one was Santa Barbara — that was the electron scattering
business.
Weiner:
You went up to SLAC for that?
Feynman:
SLAC, yes, sorry, I was in Santa Barbara, and then I went to Berkeley
for another talk.
Weiner:
The same summer?
Feynman:
Yeah, and then I gave a talk, either that one or somewhere where Mat
Sands was — I
think it must be Santa Cruz.
Weiner:
That’s where he is.
36
Feynman:
Because after I gave that talk — see, I invented some words for kinds of
collusions
called inclusive and exclusive, and I didn’t like the words. And I
remember we worried
about them. At the party we had at Sands’ I asked everybody for better
words and we
kept — we couldn’t think of any better words so we settled for those. So
I remember
giving a talk there — I must have given several talks. I also went to
CERN somewhere
along the line, probably when I was in Europe for some reason, and gave
a talk on the
same subject there.
Weiner:
But the parton idea then originated in the work you were doing in the
summer of ‘68?
Feynman:
Yes, right, that was one idea and the other idea was to look at cross
sections a certain
way in which it was easy to analyze the consequences — we now call it
inclusive cross
section with the idea that you measure one particle and you don’t care
what the others
do. At that time people thought that you should measure all the
particles. It was much
easier to measure one and not pay any attention to the others, and that
was the part of
the cross section it was easiest to predict, so it was therefore a very
great influence
because experimenters could see, they could test my theory by measuring
the simplest
possible thing to measure rather than having to measure the whole cross
section. So that
was very useful and the words “parton” and “inclusive and exclusive”
cross sections now
dominate the study of high energy collisions.
Weiner:
The Feynman scaling, so-called, came from that same thing.
Feynman:
That’s right, yeah. That’s what I was talking about at Berkeley. I was
predicting all these
scaling and everything else and that certain things shouldn’t change and
certain things
should change and I was guessing it right, luckily. But I had no
confidence when I went
to Berkeley that I was right. I had told my wife I’m going to find out —
this is going to
make or break it — I’m going to either feel like a complete jackass or
else a genius, one
or the other —
Weiner:
Well, you must have been excited.
37
Feynman:
I was. When the first three things came in and they were all right, I
was convinced. So by
the fourth question I was so convinced that I had the nerve to tell him
it was an error
because I didn’t know what the cause of the error was it wasn’t
experimental, it didn’t
describe what he did to me exactly. He said he had measured deltas on
anything, but you
can’t measure deltas, and he didn’t measure deltas on anything, they
were just deltas and
nothing else. So —
Weiner:
Had anyone else been doing anything pretty close to that, parallel?
Feynman:
Yes, Ken Wilson apparently had worked out the same scaling, or so I
understand, several
years earlier but nobody had paid any attention to him, and I didn’t
know anything about
that, of course. It was a shame for Ken Wilson. I don’t why they didn’t
pay any attention
to him.
Weiner:
Yet you didn’t publish yours, as far as I know, until the conference
proceedings and the
Phys. Rev. letter which were — well, the conference was September ‘69
and the Phys.
Rev. letter was October ‘69.
Feynman:
That’s a full year. So I was giving lectures in various places.
Weiner:
I see, so it was widely known in the community.
Feynman:
Santa Cruz, CERN — that was what I was trying to tell you, I also gave a
lecture in
CERN — yeah, it was widely known but there was no data. I mean, now
there’s lots of
data that’s — I don’t know what took me so long to publish it, my usual
reluctance to
publish.
Weiner:
38
Well, even here in the conference thing which you wrote up probably
after the
conference, there’s a lot of caution in there. “For this reason I shell
present here some
preliminary speculations on how these collisions might behave even
though I have not
yet analyzed them as fully as I would like.”
Feynman:
Yeah, well, that’s the reason I hadn’t published it yet. You see here’s
what happens to
me: I get an idea that I’m going to deduce something. If you have to
deduce it then
you’re sure. I start out with a method of deducing things and
understanding things. I was
going to explain the Regge theory from the way the Hamiltonian shifted.
You can find in
the notebooks — I had all kinds of plans of how everything was going to
work out. But
I don’t work in a straight line. So I leap ahead in one direction and
I’m expecting to close
up with the other and make a finished product, OK? But the leap that
went in the
forward direction works. I think that’s not all there is to it. I think
I’ll be able to make a
bigger do, and I work on it, but it doesn’t get any bigger. I get
confused or something.
But the leap ahead was very important. So this thing at this meeting is
illustrative of this
speculating — I had leapt ahead. I hadn’t really deduced it and I had
expected to analyze
all this much more deeply and much more clearly but I never did.
Weiner:
Yes, over here, for example — I’ll quote again from your introduction.
This is at the
Stony Brook high energy collisions conference. “I should like to present
these guesses
for you to see if they are possibly true” — these are obviously cautious
words —— or if
some of them are obviously in disagreement with experiment to learn
where I may have
already gone off the track in my thinking.” That seems to me very
similar to what you
were trying out in Berkeley — the idea that you listen and you guys stop
me if I’m
wrong.
Feynman:
That’s right.
Weiner:
There’s another thing at the very end of it. Again, you say that “I
believe the cross
section will vary as 1/w but this is not on as firm a basis as the
others suggestions.”
Feynman:
That particular one has never been checked.
39
Weiner:
It’s still not, I see. How much of this was taking old ideas and adding
some insights to it,
presenting and re-stating it in a new way.
Feynman:
None.
Weiner:
This just came out of that summer’s work in ‘68?
Feynman:
That’s right. It came from new ideas but with certain guessing leaps. It
goes like this. We
have a theory of strong interactions so we can’t deduce really what
should happen. And
we have partial theories which permit you to deduce only in that region
— if you say that
[???] behave like Regge, then they’re going to behave like Regge. OK,
that’s sort of a
prediction, but it’s only because this one does like that one, it’s not
really a leap. I was
going to try to describe how high energy collisions behave without
basing them on
anything. I can’t just say this one is going to behave like that because
that hadn’t been
worked out yet. I had to go into a new realm, OK? But we don’t have the
exact theory so
I start with models and see the properties of these models and then try
to understand
how much of the properties sort of general and sort of have to be are
and are more or
less independent of them. And then I make other arguments around and
about, checking
that are self-consistent. For example, if I suppose that the particles
which originally come
out are not the pis which we observe but rhos which are disintegrated
pis will it change
my prediction? If it doesn’t, if the nature of the prediction is so that
it’ll leave the answer
unchanged, that’s very good because it means it’s much more likely to be
true, because
undoubtedly some of them are rhos and some of them are pis, and if the
character of the
prediction is that the scaling — you have a momentum which will be
proportional to
something or other, and it doesn’t make any difference which momenta I’m
talking
about, whether of rhos or pis, the theorem is still consistent — then
it’s more likely to be
true. So by all these kinds of arguments I gradually became convinced
that something is
true. But I am not in a position like of deduction where I have a theory
that I establish
this stuff, so I get convinced it’s gotta get like this, that it’s the
neatest way to do. And so
that’s the way it is and I can’t — well, that’s the way it is. I just
never deduce it. I just
make it more and more likely to be true.
Weiner:
The critical point in this case came after the Berkeley meeting, right
and then the rest of
it was -–
40
Feynman:
Yes, but the major push was — the thing that really clinched it was
SLAC. I had a lot of
these ideas worked out and the fact that the SLAC experiments had this
one surprising
scaling was so easy and physically obvious to interpret, and with that
interpretation I
could even get some of the distributions of the parts that I had been
talking about. I
realized first that the SLAC experiments were very fundamental and
secondly that my
ideas were in the right — were worth something. And so then the next
step was whether
the hadron collisions indicated that they really were OK, and so I —
yes, I wasn’t sure of
myself when I went to Berkeley, but I was sure of myself after three
questions. The thing
of it was like this: it was either completely wrong or it had a good
chance of being right,
you see. It’s hard to explain. It had a good chance of being right
although it might have
been wrong, and if it were wrong it would be obvious to everybody who
had ever looked
at one of these collisions. And here were all these guys who had looked
at many of these
collisions, and they’re sitting there and I’m telling them how it’s
going to behave, and
they tell me, “Yes, that’s how it behaves and I didn’t understand that.”
Weiner:
You know what it would be good to do — to go to Rosenfeld and a couple
of other
guys just to ask them —
Feynman:
— how it looked.
Weiner:
Yeah, from their perspective, quite different from yours, about that
moment. I saw him
in New York just to say hello a couple of days ago and maybe I’ll see
him in Berkeley —
not to sit down but just to ask him about this.
Feynman:
Sure.
Weiner:
Let’s talk about what happened then — the impact on other people and on
the field. It
may be difficult for you to answer but it seems to me that, as you said,
these things are
known now by names and are used by lots of people in the field. Do you
think that this,
in terms of the experimentalists, that this turn was a stimulus to them
so that they would
take the ideas and go out and try to test your ideas, rather than the
other way round?
41
Feynman:
Yes, very definitely.
Weiner:
Where especially was this done?
Feynman:
In addition to my idea, at the same meeting in high energy physics there
were some ideas
of Yang and a number of other people — that was described by Yang. And
if you put
the ideas of mine and him together you get an even more complete
picture. Most
amusingly, it’s interesting that that meeting — that Stony Brook
conference is
interesting. I have a copy of it. You see the experiments describing
their results — in
fact, there’s a paper by Woodward or something like that (I forget the
name) on the
experimental conditions in high energy physics. It’s a pleasure to read
because he goes
through the whole thing and he describes two phenomena: one is the
lumping up at low
momenta of the pions which are what I was particularly — and another was
one other
feature, I don’t remember, a little bit later, of which he says, “are
very puzzling — and it
will require some very classy theoretical ideas to explain these.” And
then I give the
paper which explains those. If you wonder why I didn’t refer to his
paper and use it
already to prove it, because I had missed — I had slept through his
paper and didn’t
know that he had pointed out, until I read the proceedings later, in
which he was giving a
summary of the difficult subject of the very high energy collisions in
which he had
noticed a few phenomenon, one of which was the bunching up at low
momentum —
and I was predicting the bunching up at low momentum — but I had slept
through his
thing and I didn’t know that he had told this. Otherwise I would have
jumped up in
terrible excitement.
Weiner:
Didn’t anyone in the audience see this?
Feynman:
I don’t know that. I don’t know. They asked me questions and I answered
them and I
don’t know whether they were referring to that or not. So that there was
already
evidence that I was on the right track right there at the meeting but I
didn’t notice that at
that time. So with the ideas of Yang and mine together, they had been
very influential. I
doubt, I don’t know what would have happened without it. It may well be
that they
would have measured the same things because they are technically the
light, the easy
42
thing to measure with counters. They are harder to measure with bubble
chambers.
What people usually measured was the probability of getting exactly five
particles and
that’s technically very difficult and theoretically to predict because
the chance that you
don’t get a sixth particle is hard to correct for. The name called them
[???]. There was a
lot of that stuff and it was impossible to use it to analyze anything. I
couldn’t use it —
that’s why I didn’t know how the cross sections went in spite of all the
published data.
This inclusive cross section is the kind of cross section that is very
easy to measure. Now
it is likely that as the machines developed they would have been
measuring just that kind
of a cross section anyway — they would have just seen in direct
experiment what we
were predicting, that it was just obvious. I don’t know. But therefore
the words become
useful because they’re just what they need — it just happened to be the
right moment,
that’s what they were going to measure anyway and they needed a word to
describe it, so
inclusive and exclusive. The parton would never — it was a word — it was
an idea, and
is a theoretical idea, which isn’t necessary from history or experiment
— inclusive and
exclusive, yes. But partons, that’s an invention and that represents
something real. In the
years since then, I get confused often. See, I found out later that Ken
Wilson had talked
about this. There was some theory called multi- peripherals or something
that had
something similar and other people had derived things. So I don’t really
know sometimes
when somebody gives a result whether that’s one of my — they’re getting
it from a
paper — I had said that, yes, but maybe they’re getting it from
somewhere else. I can’t
tell often where it comes from because now they’re using inclusive and
exclusive and you
can’t tell if they got it from me because it’s word they all use.
Weiner:
What about, for example, were there very specific elaborations of the
ides that you know
of? There have been a great deal since then, right? Gluons, for example.
Feynman:
Well, those are more specific. I can tell you the history of some of
those if you want.
Weiner:
Let’s keep that for a minute and, let me get back to one thing I
remember about the
SLAC story from the conversation I overheard and participated in when
you came back
and that is that you were talking about the language that the people
were using and you
were reacting to that. You felt that it was kind of an obscure
in-language, the language of
the existing theory of the various categories. When I listened to you I
thought you were
talking about the Ptolemaic circles because that’s what it sounded like.
The impression
that I got is that what you were doing in your own work was trying to
cut through all
that without the necessity of even learning that kind of peripheral
terminology.
43
Feynman:
Well, I certainly wouldn’t bother to learn —
Weiner:
OK, well, that’s not a separate issue -–
Feynman:
One thing I’m reminded of a SLAC story — it’s probably immodest of me to
tell but it
gave me a certain pleasure. A personal friend of mine was talking to
some guys from
Santa Barbara — when I was in Santa Barbara I used to go up to the
university to the
library to read about cosmic ray collisions and I’d ask these guys about
collisions, and
one of these guys told my friend that during that summer I’d come and
I’d ask the most
naive stupid questions about how collisions behaved and everybody knew
it and they’d
answer them and then I’d say something dumb and ask more questions. And
he decided
that I was over the hill, you know, I was asking such elementary stuff
he says. And then
there’s a big explosion — I come out with partons and inclusive and
exclusive reactions,
and the whole god-damn bit — and he says, “There must be some secret
way. He’s not
over the hill at all. There’s some secret way to —.” But I was asking
the fundamental
questions, you know, not the complicated questions, somehow. Anyway,
it’s a good story
and I enjoy it.
Weiner:
Maybe to appear dumb is a symptom of an impending breakthrough.
Feynman:
Maybe — I’ll have to start to appear dumb again.
Weiner:
To see if it works? Well, you were talking about some of the background
of other
concepts, elaborations on things like gluons which is a separate story.
Feynman:
Yeah, well, it was pretty clear in the beginning that there must be some
neutral partons
too, whatever they are, and they’re neutral partons. But very early in
the game Paschkos
and Bjorken probably — I don’t know now who it is — suggested that the
partons could
be quarks. And one of my ideas about the thing of having still
interactions between the
partons seemed to me to be contrary to quarks, cause quarks don’t come
out. If they
44
don’t come out they must, I thought, have strong interactions.
Therefore, I thought my
parton picture might well be impossible with quarks. So I wasn’t saying
what the partons
were but these guys suggested they were quarks and it took me a long
time to come
around to realize that that’s a very — that it’s quite possible that
they’re quarks and it’s a
very interesting possibility. But I was slow in that because it didn’t
seem to me at first to
be a consistent view.
Weiner:
It was from them that you —
Feynman:
Well, that I — no, then I learned — sort of, they may have suggested it,
but I argued
about it. But in the meantime I studied this quark model with Ravndal
and Kislinger to
believe in quarks. I had to believe in quarks first. So I did that
development to convince
that there’s something right about them, and then when I was convinced
that there was
something right about them, of course then I was willing to consider
them more
seriously and to go back to the apparent paradoxes and see that they
really weren’t
paradoxes at all and it was possible. It still isn’t perfectly clear
that it’s possible but it’s
very interesting to suggest that it’s possible. And so I consider that
as the most useful
hypothesis because it’s such a peculiar one and I use it as much as
possible.
Weiner:
This is already when you talked about the work with Kislinger and
Ravndal. This is June
of ‘71. Well, you sent it in December of ‘70. Because of so much data
that you did with
all these matrices — this is the one, yeah — it’s like a different
approach essentially for
you. You ordinarily don’t deal with this much data and try to do this
kind of thing. It’s
not characteristic.
Feynman:
No, but all right I’ll tell you what we are doing. There was a theory
proposed by Zweig
that protons are made of three quarks and so on and baryons are made out
of three
quarks and mesons are made out of a quark-anti-quark. And he got a
number of
observations from this, that the magnetic moments looked reasonable, and
so forth. The
question is — then people had made models that the quarks are held
together by springs
and so on, and there was a lot of talk about these things. But when
people who would do
that — and the question is: is it right or is it wrong? In other words,
are there these
regularities? Do the things have regularities which are indicative of
the fact that they’re
made out of quarks or is that just a lot of numerical [???]. Usually
when people did it they
had a lot of parameters that they could adjust and then they would talk
about some other
thing — well, in this particular case we’ll suppose that this
configuration, you see,
45
because it didn’t work and so they’d add another term when it didn’t
work and so on.
And then you couldn’t tell after it worked whether it works now because
they added the
other term or because it’s real. So I was not able to make up my mind
whether there was
hidden in the data a clue that this regularity, that this Zweig
viewpoint was really right, or
was just an accident. And then walker had found out that this particular
model with
springs give remarkably good results for photoelectric matrix elements
that he had
measured. He had noticed that, and Ravndal was working on this and told
me about how
it works but that certain things don’t work at all. And I saw why they
didn’t work —
certain things involving transitions of half spin — I don’t know if I
can explain, I don’t
know one word to explain the difficulty. Anyway, I saw what it was and I
proposed an
explanation of that and I took my old theories from 1966 about the
pieces being held
together by springs — the relativistic theory — I had much fewer
parameters than
anybody else, and I made a rule: the three of us, we wouldn’t put any
configuration mix;
we wouldn’t do anything, so that we don’t fool ourselves, and we’d just
simply calculate
and by the sheer weight of the evidence we’d find out one way or another
without
adjusting things. So it was a matter of taking all the data when and you
can’t just do it
with a piece because you’re fooling yourself. You take a piece that fits
and the piece that
doesn’t fit you don’t notice. We had to take the whole goddamn shebang.
We went
through the whole thing systematically to see whether it looked as if it
was an accident or
it was real. And we concluded that it was very likely real, that there’s
something
underneath all this that looks like that model. And I was really doing
that, not for
publication, but for my own personal — that converted me into a
quarkerian, OK. I had
to decide whether these quarks were an accident or [???] were likely to
have some reality.
And I concluded that they were likely to have some reality from the
result of that work.
So it was an exercise to determine — like all the rest of the studies I
made, but I had
worked with these — Ravndal had started it, and Kislinger and I got in
on it.
Weiner:
What was their status? Who were they?
Feynman:
Students.
Weiner:
They were students. Was this the thing they got their degree with?
Feynman:
No.
46
Weiner:
Post-docs?
Feynman:
I don’t know… yeah, probably post-docs.
Weiner:
I heard the description of this, referred to as sort of a molecular
physics of quarks.
Would you think that would be an apt way of putting it?
Feynman:
Yeah, very poor. It’s physically not very good. The equation is sloppy
and everything is
kind of dopey, but it was definite. And the question was: we take these
rules and we
don’t change anything — it was merely an exercise to see whether —
Weiner:
What was the result as far as other people were concerned?
Feynman:
I don’t know and I really don’t care.
Weiner:
There’s a nice line in here about — “we have sacrificed theoretical
adequacy for
simplicity” — right up front you made the point in order to justify what
else you were
doing. It was massive, as far as the data — this is the thing that
impressed me as being so
different from the others. There is one point here that I was looking
for — well, I’ll
think of it later. I can’t describe it now. OK, now let me ask another
question. You used
a quark model just in an earlier paper, “Some Comments on Baryonic
States.” You had
no misgivings about it when you used it?
Feynman:
Yeah, that helped me to get convinced that it was worth — see, I tried
it and it gave the
parities right. That’s one thing. There’re two things. The quark model
has the right
symmetry to give the right states. The question is: did it have the
dynamical sense too?
It’s like Mendeleev makes a chart and says there should be eights and
then there should
be thesis and things fit in. Then you could say, the reason there are
eight and so on is
47
because there are so-and-such parts in there and then they go around
each other and
they will produce various effects if they go around each other. The
question was to
check whether they’re dynamically there. — If this is satisfactory too,
and that was what
this was about…
Weiner:
There was an interesting comment you made in that about that you and who
else did you
do it with?
Feynman:
Ravndal and Kislinger.
Weiner:
No, I’m talking about the earlier one, on baryonic states.
Feynman:
Tuan and — I didn’t do anything with them except fix up the manuscript.
Weiner:
Yeah, that was the one we discussed earlier, right, Tuan and Pakvasa.
The specific
suggestion you made for experimental people: “We urge that an accurate
spin-parity
measurement be made.”
Feynman:
That was those guys.
Weiner:
Oh, they put that in. I was just curious whether or not — sometimes this
is a way of
begging off a question to put in that kind of a statement and other
times it’s a specific
insight that you have. You are not taking any responsibility for that in
the background of
it.
Feynman:
No, that’s on the right track though because new measurements have
indicated there are
particles where there weren’t supposed to be. That’s just confirming
Zweig’s ideas,
48
proving a little bit the way you compare it to experiment.
Weiner:
Well, that brings — we’ve discussed the parton papers — actually it
takes it up even into
‘71. But there was one other thing that came in, a rather big paper with
Thornber. It
seems to me this went back to earlier work of your own as well, right?
He was following
something from your earlier work — is that it?
Feynman:
Yeah, all this — he published it in 1970 but the work was done much
earlier. He was a
student at Caltech and he wanted a thesis and he started to do this
work. He picked up
something called the polaron which I had done, made the theory of.
Weiner:
About ‘62 or something.
Feynman:
Yes and he picked it up, maybe it was ‘68, or whenever he did it. So we
worked together
on this thing, I mean I assisted him in how to do it you know, gave him
advice, because
he did his thesis. He did all the writing and everything else, all the
work. I mean I did a
lot of work with him so I don’t feel like I didn’t do anything but he
wrote the whole
paper, a very good job at the end, but I taught him how to do it.
Weiner:
Is this the kind of thing that would show up in your notebooks, though?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
It would show up in his notebooks.
Feynman:
I don’t know where the hell I did that. It was in his notebooks. It
wouldn’t show up in
my notebooks at all because these notebooks are high energy physics.
49
Weiner:
Strictly, I see. This is sort of going back to something much earlier.
Feynman:
That’s right.
Weiner:
But I got a kick out of seeing a classic Feynman line in the paper, in
the introduction, a
simple sentence: “Our approach is physical and direct.” This is like a
statement of
principle —
Feynman:
I don’t know whether I wrote that or not.
Weiner:
Well, whether you did or not, it’s the influence here that makes it
interesting. And then
the terminology is almost the same terminology as the letters you write
yourself in your
notebook. “The simplest question we can ask is this — given an applied
field in a crystal,
what is the explanation?’
Feynman:
Well, he was very much influenced by me and I can’t say who wrote that.
I believe he
wrote that. I believe that he wrote all that. I’m not ashamed of that
because we put so
much work together into it. You know what I mean; it’s not that I got my
name on
something that somebody else did.
Weiner:
Right.
Feynman:
He did a lot of it, though. He did a lot of good work and wrote it all
up.
Weiner:
Yeah, it’s his thesis — I didn’t realize, his thesis was Part II, 1966,
and this was
50
submitted November ‘69. So it’s much earlier than I thought. So then he
got around to
publishing it. I thought it was fresh out of the thesis, but it wasn’t.
It was probably the
first time he had a chance to do something with it. That raises another
general question
about collaboration in this period that we’re talking about, l965 to
now: the collaborators
here are students so far or post-docs. Have you ever had any instances
in this period,
whether it was published or not, where you worked really side-by-side
with Gell-Mann
or someone like that — I’m using him as an example, or anyone on a very
specific
problem?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
It’s been this kind of notebook solitary work?
Feynman:
I always work alone.
Weiner:
Except when someone else draws you into their problems?
Feynman:
Yeah, right.
Weiner:
I guess that has been the pattern, except that when you worked with
Wheeler, right, at a
certain period?
Feynman:
Well, I was young then. I was his assistant.
Weiner:
Now, getting off the science because I don’t know any more to ask you
specifically about
published work or even about the notebooks, unless the notebooks are
going to reflect a
lot more since the notebooks show what you were doing the period when
there is no
51
visible published stuff, and then we skipped from the notebooks and we
started talking
about what was published.
Feynman:
I looked at the notebook to see what was in 1968 and I see all the work
on the parton
model then, deep inelastic electron scattering, and all the analyses of
it are in there, so
that’s what I told you about, but I told you about it without looking at
it page by page.
Weiner:
Right, but what I’m getting at is that does this then represent just
about the total body of
what your work is in the last several years?
Feynman:
Yeah.
Weiner:
In other words, there’s no other sideline, no other dipping in to
something else. You’re
pretty firmly focused — you found your home.
Feynman:
Well, to an extent, yes. I had gotten stuck in a corner, you might say,
instead of finding
my home.
Weiner:
When you went into it, you were sort of putting down the guys who were
satisfying in
this field without getting their way out. Now you’re in.
Feynman:
Yeah, well, you shine a light in the corner and that’s exciting when you
run in there but if
you get stuck to a wall then there’s no use — you have to find another
way out, right?
Weiner:
Right, but you still find that you’re on the right track, in other
words, the things that you
are pursuing are still in the general direction?
52
Feynman:
What are you asking me about now — what am I doing now?
Weiner:
Yes, whether this concern, say from ‘67 on, which started into the
parton thing, has been
the thread accounting for just about all of your thinking — the
ramifications of this, the
working out of it, and the problems of it?
Feynman:
Yeah, but it’s very unsuccessful. I haven’t been able to ramify very far
or work very
much out, so I have another of these periods where nothing is happening
for the last
couple of years.
Weiner:
But the notebooks are reflecting you’re struggling with it?
Feynman:
And you’ll find missing dates of many months where there’s nothing in
the notebook.
Weiner:
That’s what I wanted to know. I wanted to get the feeling of what you’re
doing.
Feynman:
‘71 and ‘72 I’m talking about. I mean I exhausted my notebooks. You
can‘t think of the
same god-damned thing for five years — three years but not five years.
In the same
corner, you can’t — you have to get out, and I haven’t been able to get
out.
Weiner:
When I talked to you on the telephone a couple of weeks ago you said you
were still
excited about the SLAC results and that it’s still pending.
Feynman:
Yeah, it’s still pending, yeah, right.
53
Weiner:
Well, what do you mean?
Feynman:
Well, the idea might be right and there are some very nice suggestions
that the partons
are quarks and so on, and up till now it hasn’t really been
demonstrated. There are a
number of demonstrations that that’s in fact correct that can be made
experimentally,
and they ought to be made so that we get convinced one way or the other.
That the
partons are quarks are a possibility and a very interesting one — it’s
sort of semi-
paradoxical but not quite. You can’t quite disprove it theoretically. It
has definite
predictions of numerical quantities, the exact numerical measurements it
should give,
and we should have to measure those things to check it, to see if it’s
right.
Weiner:
So the burden on the experimental works now in this?
Feynman:
Well, this particular problem has an experimental question that it would
be very good to
resolve, yes.
Weiner:
I saw a paper at the New York meeting which was the most ridiculous
thing because all
the man said is that we’re making experiments. This is a popular version
of it I want to
show you -– “The continuing search for quarks” — and all he says is that
people have
been looking and we’re still looking.
Feynman:
That’s not what I’m talking about.
Weiner:
I know but —
Feynman:
No you don’t know.
54
Weiner:
Well, I thought that he gets into it here. He may get into the Parton
thing. Anyway I’m
not sure.
Feynman:
No, you don’t understand it.
Weiner:
OK, well, let me —
Feynman:
Just let me say something.
Weiner:
Please.
Feynman:
You keep telling me, let me, all right, let me. There’s a new idea that
the quarks really
exist as individual particles, and the other possibility is that protons
are made of these
things but they can never come apart. It doesn’t help any if the proton
is made of these
particles and they do come apart. That’s not necessary to find the
quarks. The hypothesis
is that maybe they don’t come apart. But that’s what we have to test
experimentally —
whether the protons are made out of quarks but they don’t come apart.
Whether they do
or they don’t, the experiments that we were just talking a few moments
ago in SLAC and
so on would determine whether protons are made out of quarks. The
question whether
the quarks can be found as individual objects is an irrelevant but
additional question,
OK? It isn’t irrelevant of course to physics but it’s not relevant to
this particular
question. So the idea which is the new imagination is not that there are
quarks — and I
don’t care whether these guys find them or they don’t find them, at
least as far as this is
concerned — of course, I care — but the experiment is to find out
whether protons are
made of quarks. It’s not this experiment, OK? I wanted to clear that up.
Weiner:
I see, but this one that Feldman is talking about on the electric
production of hadrons,
that’s closer?
55
Feynman:
I don’t know what Feldman is talking about. All right, just a second,
let me read it. No.
Yes. No. Wait. It doesn’t say in this. You can’t tell.
Weiner:
It’s such an abbreviated kind of thing.
Feynman:
I’ll have to read this to find out — “Released for Thursday: Electric
Production of
Hadrons.”
Weiner:
I don’t know what he said in his talk…
Feynman:
The question is whether he’s — this looks like it’s related to yes, not
looking for quarks
— yeah, external quarks, but not internal quarks. It doesn’t say — it’s
very poor. The guy
wrote it himself but it’s very poor. He doesn’t say what the experiment
is to measure or
to find out or what. He says: “The experiment described by the lecture
following used a
new device called a superconducting tube.” This is typical of the
journalism — all you
can find out about the experiment is that it uses a superconducting
tube. It drives you
crazy. I read the whole thing and I can’t find out what the experiment
is.
Weiner:
He probably thought that otherwise it would get too technical but then
they left the
technical part out and that’s the guts of it in terms of the issue. All
right, let’s —
Feynman:
Don’t let me read the newspaper? Will you — that’s no way to talk
physics.
Weiner:
All right. The reason I’m asking this and the whole point of my
confusion on this is that
—
Feynman:
56
OK, this other one is definitely looking for quarks as free independent
particles. He says
it in black and white. This guy doesn’t say “but I’m sure he’s not
looking for them as free
independent particles.” Then it’s in connection with this other set of
examples.
Weiner:
What this led me to think was that there is a possibility that with
other development of
technique at places like SLAC that it may be possible to get new kinds
of results which
would make it a very very live issue. FEYNAN: Yes. It is a live issue.
It’s the issue.
Weiner:
It’s the issue but you can’t do anything with it until you get more
experimental results.
Feynman:
Well you can always guess and make new theory and then find out that the
theory
predicts that some other experiment for results means something.
Weiner:
Well, you’re still working on it.
Feynman:
No I’m not. I’m tired of it. I’m screwed. I’m in a corner.
Weiner:
Is there a group actively at work at SLAC for example trying to solve
your problems, by
that I mean, going very specifically on thing’s which would give —
Feynman:
All over the world people are measuring all kinds of things that have to
do with this
parton view — hadron collisions, electron scattering and so on — and
somewhere
somehow they’re going to find out whether or not the partons are quarks
or what they
are, and get more information. But it’s not just in one place. It’s all
over.
Weiner:
All right. That’s the current state of it.
57
Feynman:
Yeah, that’s the current state of it, and lots of theorists have added a
whole lot of ideas
to the original idea so that deeper understanding, for example — a
typical example, I said
nothing and I have still said nothing because I don’t want to say
anything about how —
you see, I say what will happen at infinite energy, but how should it
approach that? At
low energy it’s not infinite, as you go up in energy, I tell how things
get from very high
energy but I don’t tell how it moves into that direction, like for
instance, how much
deviation you should expect and should the deviation fall with one over
the energy or
one over the square root or what? I haven’t said anything about that.
And I haven’t said
anything about what happens in wide angle collisions. And there’s a lot
that I haven’t
said and a lot of experiments to determine all these things. And a lot
of theories are
coming out with these various things, and so it’s a very active
business. But I have gotten
myself stuck. I’m stuck, temporarily, in getting any new idea. I said as
much as I can say.
I’ve been saying it for two or three years and I’m tired of saying it.
Weiner:
What do you do in a case like that; turn your attention to something
new?
Feynman:
I don’t know what to do. Do you have a formula for how to become
successful?
Weiner:
No, I got my problems too.
Feynman:
I don’t know. You got me in a bad mood this week because I am
temporarily stuck and I
don’t know what’s happening. I’m thinking about transitions in two
dimensions in a
solid or something like that for relaxation. But I realize every other
week I go down to
the beach house, walk on the sand, and think about these high energy
collisions and just
walk, thinking in circles, thinking in circles like a fly against a
window — pzzz bang, pzzz
bang, pzzz bang. It’s time the fly sat down on the ground and walked
around and
smelled the flowers and then starts flying and — see, maybe he’ll blow
in a new
direction. That’s the condition I’m in.
Weiner:
Maybe change the garden too.
58
Feynman:
Yeah, that’s right; try something else instead of flying against the
same window all the
time.
Weiner:
Well, there have been other times like that so it’s not new to you.
Feynman:
No, no.
Weiner:
Let me ask something which is more background about your teaching during
this whole
period. We mentioned the courses and how you tried ideas out on the
courses. Has the
pattern of your teaching changed from ‘65 to now, that is, the kinds of
courses you’re
giving, the kind of contact you have with students?
Feynman:
Not very much except that I’m getting older so the courses are less
good. I don’t prepare
them as well.
Weiner:
Well, you went through that intensive period of the Feynman lectures.
Feynman:
Yeah, well, I do prepare the — I don’t do any of that now — I gave two
courses in the
last year on high energy physics to keep in the thing and I worked very
hard on both of
them and looked at everything in great detail, but I don’t know whether
they were any
good or not. I think the more elementary one was pretty good. Now I’m
teaching
quantum mechanics and I don’t think I’m doing such a good job. I’m not
preparing it
very well. I take old notebooks and use them. It’s the old story of the
old professor who
gives the same lecture so many times. I don’t know what’s new in the
field and probably
some younger man should give the lectures.
Weiner:
Well, they can get a certain style from you and a certain direct
approach from you and
get details somewhere else.
59
Feynman:
I’ve never been too happy with teaching. I’ve told you that before. I
never feel like I’m
doing anything.
Weiner:
Well, also you made the point that you didn’t know what was happening
with your
students.
Feynman:
That’s right. And I still have that feeling.
Weiner:
You’ll never know — by your own standards. Maybe other people in the
world will
know but you won’t. Let we ask another point about the change in your
life, if any,
because when you became a Nobel Prize winner you were a lot more visible
and a lot
more of a target for people who want you to do things and expect that
you have certain
responsibilities let’s say, because of this position. You told me that
your first reaction to
the Prize itself -– the very new responsibility of dealing with the
press on that day of the
announcement was something that you had to face and you decided that
well, maybe it’s
easier for you to call them all with the minimum that was expected.
Let’s talk about that
from that time on — was it as bad as you expected that it was going to
be in terms of
people constantly after you to do things?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
Once you had gotten the Prize, I mean.
Feynman:
Oh, from time to time somebody bothers me but I don’t do a goddamn
thing. I have
nothing to do with it. If somebody says, “We need a Nobel Prize winner
to sign a letter
to Russia on the Jews,” I say, “I’m willing to sign a letter to Russia
on the Jews but I’m
not willing to be a Nobel Prize winner signing a letter to Russia on the
Jews.” I don’t
want to have anything to do with the goddamned Nobel Prize.
60
Weiner:
Some people talk of the GNP and think they mean gross national product,
but now I
know what they mean by GNP.
Feynman:
No, I try to — sometimes it’s embarrassing, it comes up in conversation
or something
and so on — and I try to avoid it. And I often get letters, you know,
complimentary — I
don’t do anything about it.
Weiner:
No different than in the past then.
Feynman:
No, no different than in the past. Now is no different than in the past.
It’s just as if it
never happened, which is good.
Weiner:
So in other words, when we talked last time about what had happened at
the ceremony
and so forth —
Feynman:
I realize now it’s all a lot of nonsense. I don’t know why I worried
about what happened
on the ceremony. What the hell difference does it make what happens in a
ceremony.
Ridiculous, the whole thing is ridiculous — although I got a house in
Baja, California, on
account of that thing, that got paid for because of the Prize.
Weiner:
You mean with the money from that?
Feynman:
Yeah, that part isn’t so ridiculous.
Weiner:
So you counteracted it and invested in privacy since you were thrust
into the public.
61
Feynman:
Right, exactly, exactly.
Weiner:
But you got involved in someone else’s business — I’m thinking of, if
you’d like to talk
about it, I find it fascinating — in Gianone’s case, the court case,
since that was a
nationally — I heard about it in New York because it was picked up in
the newspaper —
Feynman:
That’s another example of the Nobel Prize getting in the goddamned way.
This man had
a restaurant and he had topless dancers dancing in it and they would
arrest him when the
girls were doing particularly nothing, just dancing with no clothes on,
but they would say
that they would do things. And he went around to his customers and asked
them if they
would help and say what they saw at this time, OK? And I said no, and
everybody said
no. And he said to me, “It’s funny. They all come here to look and they
all don’t want to
—.” So I realized that it was really ridiculous that we’re not going to
— so I said, all
right, I would do it. After all, I’m the only free man; I’m a professor,
and so forth. So he
had some kind of a trial and he said he just wanted me to come up and
tell what the
restaurant was like and so I went to the trial and I told what the
restaurant was like and
everything was all right. Then another time he got into trouble again.
The first time I said
“The thing that bothers me is the publicity that might some from this,
that’s all, but I’ll
be glad to do it.” And at first he said, “I won’t tell anybody, we’ll
just do it right away in
the courtroom and nobody will be there.” I said, “OK.” So I did that.
The second time
he asked me again. He had another case, and this time his lawyer knew
that I was a
Nobel Prizewinner and so on. And his lawyer was a little bit dopey so he
doesn’t tell me
what he’s going to ask me, you know, and he gets me on their and he
says, “We
understand you’re a Nobel Prize winner” and all this crap see. And by
this time the court
reporter had found out and so forth, so it got into all the newspapers
and it was just a
pain. What I was trying to do was what he’d told me that I was going to
do — this is the
lawyer — was to describe the restaurant and what went on in the
restaurant and that was
all I was going to do, as a citizen. But I was unable to do that as an
ordinary citizen. It
became — it even appeared in a newspaper in Geneva, Switzerland. But
that’s not fair. It
had nothing to do with it.
Weiner:
Well, the part that appeared in the paper that I saw was –-
Feynman:
62
I don’t mind — it wasn’t embarrassing so much as it’s silly.
Weiner:
Yeah, you said — I mean the paper —
Feynman:
It means, you see, the Nobel Prize means I’m not free quite to do what I
would
ordinarily do, which is to give testimony in a court trial through
somebody that I think
something’s been done that requires some testimony. And I also testified
about the —
what happened is that the guy gets me up there and then he says to me —
he starts to
prove that I’m an expert on the — he asked me questions about the
general opinion of
Californians on this subject. And I say, “Well, I deny being an expert.”
The judge says,
“You can’t deny being an expert.” Then the lawyer started to prove that
I’m an expert by
saying, “How many times did you go to this place? How many other places
have you
gone to?” and so on, so he could prove that I was an expert. “And what
kind of people
do you talk to?” “I talk to all kinds of people.” “Have you ever talked
about their
opinion on this subject?” “Yes,” and so my own lawyer — the lawyer that
he got —
builds all this stuff up so somewhere in the newspaper it comes out that
I go three or
four times a night to Gianone’s. I used to go for lunch and then go in
the evening —
three or four times a week, or something like that. And that gets in the
paper — all kinds
of things. It was crazy. But they tried to make me into an expert and I
have to give my
opinion as to whether Californian opinion is in favor of this or against
this, so I gave my
opinion. And so on, so altogether it wasn’t particularly good and the
Nobel Prize got in
the way.
Weiner:
The part they quoted in the paper which is always good for laughs was
not so much the
Nobel Prize that was incidental, it was “I go there and do my
calculations.”
Feynman:
I do. I still do.
Weiner:
I know that but to a newspaper. “Imagine a guy going into a topless
place just to
calculate.”
Feynman:
63
I’ll show you. I’ll bring up some papers in which there are calculations
on the little
scalloped-edged place mats. I’ve got a lot of that stuff — a lot of
place mat notes. Here,
right here, look, see —
Weiner:
In this notebook.
Feynman:
Look, here’s one. OK, that proves it, right.
Weiner:
It’s not bad paper.
Feynman:
No, it’s good paper. I got too many sheets here. I didn’t use all of
that. See.
Weiner:
They’re folded over loose leafs.
Feynman:
Well, I fold them over because — you see, that’s just an example. Yes, I
do that and I’ve
done that and I always did that and I still do that.
Weiner:
That should have been admitted to evidence.
Feynman:
I still do that. I’ve got a lot of those.
Weiner:
Well, I went there with you one time and we talked quite seriously in
the bar, maybe it
was.
Feynman:
64
It’s easy, a lot of noise, but nobody bothers me down there. I like it
down there. Also
I’ve made a drawing, you see, that’s on the wall down there. And so
[???] likes it very
much so he doesn’t charge me for my soda water down there. So it doesn’t
cost me
much. I come down and he always is glad to see me, and so forth.
Weiner:
The drawing was another thing we talked about a little bit.
Feynman:
I had started to draw the last time you were here?
Weiner:
Yeah, and you had had some of your stuff in that store. Some friend of
one of the
models there —
Feynman:
Yeah, I had stuff in Bullock’s for two months or something. I didn’t
sell anything,
absolutely nothing.
Weiner:
That’s what I wanted to know. At the time they were on display. I didn’t
see them.
Feynman:
Not a goddamned thing, no. She had taken stuff that really wasn’t so
very good either.
Weiner:
She selected it?
Feynman:
The good stuff she had already sold. But I didn’t sell a damned thing,
and then after that
— I’d sold other things to other people by other ways — then Henry
Dreyfus, who
recently died, the designer, he suggested or someone else suggested that
they have a little
exhibit of my art, they were going to have art exhibits and they were
going to have my
art exhibit in the basement of the Athenaeum. So I had a show. And the
fun of it was
that they organized — some secretary had to take care of it, and she
called up — I gave
65
her a list of all the people who had bought drawings, paintings from me.
You know they
had bought it under the name Ofey.
Weiner:
Yes, Ofey, right.
Feynman:
And they didn’t know who I was already. And so that some lady who had
bought this
painting through my agent which was a –-
Weiner:
A waitress, wasn’t she?
Feynman:
No, she was originally a model but then she was working in Bullock’s for
a time as an
interior decorator. Anyway, she told them about my drawings and she’d
sold a few of
them and then they would get this telephone call, “We understand you
have an Ofey and
we’re having an exhibit of Ofeys. We would like to invite you to the
exhibit and we
would like very much to have your painting.” They were all delighted so
all the stuff that
I had sold all over collected back again and it was on all the walls.
And it really looked
pretty good to me. It was quite fun, you know.
Weiner:
Your first one-man show.
Feynman:
Yeah. It was really great.
Weiner:
And, of course, the people at Caltech knew that it was you.
Feynman:
Sure. They found out who it was.
66
Weiner:
Do you still sign it Ofey?
Feynman:
Yeah, I still sign them Ofey but selling them, recently, most of the
people I sell them to
know who I am not because they make contacts you know, I mean it’s not
famous that I
draw.
Weiner:
So therefore they want them.
Feynman:
I’ve gotten confidence now that the drawings are not so bad.
Weiner:
Do they do it through you personally or through some gallery?
Feynman:
Usually through me.
Weiner:
You have them here and they come and see them or something?
Feynman:
No, they’re not good enough for galleries.
Weiner:
Well, for an exhibition, anyway.
Feynman:
An exhibition is kind of fun.
Weiner:
67
But are you spending as much time doing that as you were before, I mean,
just in your
off hours when you feel like it?
Feynman:
I don’t do as much as I did — now.
Weiner:
Maybe that’s the thing to do now that you’re stuck.
Feynman:
Probably. That’s probably right.
Weiner:
Well, one other thing that I’d like to get into is the — were there any
periods of time that
you spent away from here other than the summers? Did you take a leave at
all during
that period of time? Did you work at another institution?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
Did you travel for entire summers or anything like that?
Feynman:
Yeah, I go away in the summer like I would go to England and stay there
for a month or
something like that.
Weiner:
And you’d work then while you were there?
Feynman:
On and off.
68
Weiner:
But you haven’t gone to CERN, let’s say, for two months or anything like
that, the way
Gell-Mann, for example, did –- took a year of leave?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
So it’s been no institutional leave. You’ve strictly been here.
Feynman:
No. Oh, I might be there for three or four days.
Weiner:
Well, that’s something different. And what about in the other realm? One
time I
remember that after we had originally talked you gave a talk before the
National Science
Teachers group -– I forget what the title was -– and I got a kick out of
that because in
that talk you talked about your father when you were a kid and he was
showing you the
tiles and patterns and so forth. I want to tell you a funny story about
it. I was sitting at
lunch with someone and he said, “Gee, I heard the greatest lecture by
Feynman and he
told how he got interested in science.” I just said, “I betcha his
father had something to
do with that.” And he said, “Yeah.” “I betcha a guy like Feynman
probably had some
pattern recognitions and tiles and probably his father took him to the
Museum.” “Wow,
how did you know that?” It was really funny. And he said, “Yeah, it’s
just what he said.
Gee, you’ve really got some instinct.” That was the end of it. But how
about things in
that realm. You used to write, for example, in Engineering & Science
Review. That was a
good outlet and you said they’d publish anything you’d write. You even
wrote about
Brazilian science, you wrote about science education. How about that in
this last period?
It doesn’t show up in the kind of stuff that I find.
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
Why not?
69
Feynman:
I stopped. I think it has something to do with the Nobel Prize.
Weiner:
You mean that you feel that they regard it as too much —
Feynman:
I don’t know. You’re asking me a psychotically question. One thing is
that I have no
more stomach for philosophical questions and political questions. One of
the reasons is
I got — I shy away from them much more positively than I ever did
before. I won’t even
discuss them. I don’t know why.
Weiner:
The whole discussion of political questions has become much more sharp
and intense,
you know, it’s not academic any more. You know from other people so –-
Feynman:
Well, even philosophical questions.
Weiner:
Yeah, although I would say that there’s a great deal of philosophy of
science, not in the
formal sense, but in how one does a problem and how one –-
Feynman:
Yeah, but I mean a formal sense. Formal sense. I don’t mean I don’t
believe in thinking
about what I’m doing. Talking about it is another matter. I don’t like
to talk about it
anymore. It’s possible it has to do with — I told you about the bet with
Weisskopf,
didn’t I that I would never get involved in a responsible position?
Weiner:
No, I don’t know about that.
Feynman:
You know I visited CERN right after I got the Prize and I gave that
talk.
70
Weiner:
Without your coat.
Feynman:
Without my coat. Let’s see was it — yes, it was about that time — in
fact, I went to
CERN and they were having a big meeting, all the big cheeses. So I went
in the back of
the meeting — the meeting was that Weisskopf was resigning or was
finished with his
two years.
Weiner:
It was five.
Feynman:
Five years. And that was what the meeting was about. So I went to the
meeting and they
were all praising him and so forth. You know how he is, he’s completely
self-effacing
and a very nice guy, and so when I came in the back of the meeting he
waves to me.
Then after the meeting I went down to him and he said, “How about
lunch?” I’m only
telling this anecdote for its amusement. “How about lunch?” I says,
“OK.” So we go
downstairs — there’s all these people, a big milling of people and
they’d just been
praising him and they were all talking about the same thing, how
self-effacing he was and
how wonderful and how were the ever going to get anybody like that
again. So we go
down to lunch. It’s a cafeteria down there. So Weisskopf and I go
through the cafeteria
and he’s very nice. He offers to pay for it for me, you see, so I go
through carrying my
tray. And as we carry our trays we look over to one side of the
cafeteria, and the cafeteria
has lots of tables, but on one side there are all these tables piled
together in a big
arrangement and obviously somebody’s going to have a banquet. So he
looks at me and
he says: “Oh, I forgot. They’re having this banquet for my farewell.” He
says: “We have
these trays.” He says: “Listen, we have to eat over there. Let’s just
put the trays down on
this table here and go over and eat.” So we put down the trays he just
finished paying for
and we went over to eat at this banquet. But that’s him. During the
banquet I asked him
about this. I say: “You have a position of responsibility. You have a
position of
responsibility.” He says: “Yes, and now that you’ve won the Nobel Prize
you too will
have a position of responsibility.” “Ah ha,” I said, “Never.” So he
said, “All right, I’ll
make a bet within ten years you’ll have a position of responsibility.” I
said, “All right, I’ll
take the bet.” I don’t want the bet was for — ten dollars or something.
And Rossi is
holding the money. No, not Rossi — who’s holding the money? I know the
man’s name
but I can’t remember it right away.
Weiner:
71
Amaldi?
Feynman:
No, no, it’s Cocconi. So he says: “But we have to decide what a position
of responsibility
is.” And I said: “A position of responsibility is where you’re in charge
of what other
people are doing and you haven’t got the slightest idea what they’re
doing — you’re in
charge and controlling it but you don’t know what they’re doing.” He
says: “All right,
that’s a fine definition.” So we have this bet. You see he was scaring
me by saying now
that you’ve won the Nobel Prize it will be impossible for you to avoid —
so I think as a
reaction I’ve been very careful to avoid with 100% fear anything that
has any —
Weiner:
Now cassette 2, side 1. Ok, you have five years to go — no, you have two
years to go on
your responsibility.
Feynman:
That’s all. I’m going to win the bet.
Weiner:
We’ll see. You never know what happens.
Feynman:
No, it’s impossible. I’ve gotten so hard-assed; as I said, totally
irresponsible.
Weiner:
There’s one time though, the last time that I saw you which was at the
San Francisco
American Physical Society meeting, where there was a confrontation. This
was one thing
that you had not invited but it was a question of —
Feynman:
Yes, that’s right. I had invited it all right don’t worry.
Weiner:
You mean in the letters. Well, it would be interesting to talk about
that because I thought
it was an incredible thing. It worked out in a most interesting way I
thought. All right,
72
the issue was that the people concerned with the rights of women, let’s
say —
Feynman:
Are you telling it for the tape? What do you want?
Weiner:
No, I’m just trying to remind you.
Feynman:
I know what the story is.
Weiner:
Well, let’s start from the beginning then.
Feynman:
I got a letter from these people that said that the books that I wrote
showed that I
thought that women couldn’t be good physicists and I looked at the
various references
and it was kind of ridiculous. In one case I had a woman driver that a
cop stops and
because it was a woman driver they said that showed prejudice against
women. Well,
they’re sensitive. I didn’t think that made any sense. And another
example was I told a
story about, I think it was Houtermans — after he figured out how the
stars got their
energy, he was out with his girl and she said: “How beautifully the
stars are shining.”
And he said: “Yes, and I am the only man in the world who knows how they
shine, why
they shine.” She just laughed at him, and I went on and said that in
this world when you
know something new you’re always alone. I was teaching my students about
it. This was
then claimed that I claimed that a woman couldn’t understand nuclear
reactions in the
stars which, of course, was not the story. I was telling a true story
about how this
happened the first time. They had no rationality about it, you see. So I
wrote back —
they raked this over — so I wrote “Don’t bug me, man.” And then they
wrote back they
were dissatisfied with the answer and so on and so on and so on. And I
was going to this
meeting in San Francisco to get a prize, the Oersted Medal. Then I got
warned. I had
forgotten all about this letter. They wrote me a letter they were going
to do about it but I
forgot all about it. But just the night before I went somebody called me
up on the
telephone and said — he was a lawyer or something and had been at a
meeting of these
people and he said something about this stuff and how do you feel about
it, and he gave
me the clue that they might do something. So that when I met my sister
at the airport I
told her this story — I said I had a suspicion they might do something —
and she said:
“That’s absolutely ridiculous. If they do anything I’ll tell the story
about how you
educated me in science and how you’re not prejudiced at all and that
you’ve taught me
73
everything I know and what does a brother to a sister like that, you
can’t really believe,”
and the examples given in the book were absolutely ridiculous, she said.
And so when I
got to the meeting they were giving out circulars which had the letters
back and forth
between us in which I say, “Don’t bug me, man.” I answered them.
Weiner:
Yes, I saw those.
Feynman:
And my sister gets a copy of this and she says, “It’s just crazy,” she
says, “I’ll say this.”
And then as I got to the meeting Faye Ajsenberg was waiting. She had
been a previous
chairman in charge of women or something, I don’t know, but she was
waiting in the
front where I was going to sit. She says: “Hi.” She says, “You’re my
favorite male
chauvinist pig,” or something like that, and my sister was standing next
to me. And so
Faye turns to my sister and she says: “Do you realize that this man has
a sister that he
taught all of physics that she’s a successful Ph.D.?” “Yes,” she says,
“not only do I
realize it, but I am that sister.” What Faye had thought was that she
was going to protect
me from these people and as she saw me coming down with a woman she
assumed that
I’d already been captured by them and was already being harassed, so she
wanted to
protect me so she gave her this. And then we sat down and Faye said to
me, “You know
what I’m going to do? If there’s any trouble I’m going to get up and I’m
going to say that
these books made a big sensational effect, how they give everybody a
chance to learn
physics, men as well as women, and they shouldn’t be criticized.” So I
was sitting there
and Serber was giving a talk so I had time to think, which all I need
is. If I have time to
think I’m all right. It’s when a situation comes quick I don’t know what
to do. So I
thought to myself, if Faye can say that I can say that, and if my sister
can say that, I can
say that. My sister told me there’s an awful lot of prejudice, there’s
really a lot of
prejudice. It’s hard to get jobs. She had difficulties, and so on. And
Faye said there’s
prejudice, that they really admit that, but that this thing is a
ridiculous example. So I said
I can say the same thing. I believe there’s prejudice too, what the
hell? So then I got up
and when it was my turn, I simply said that I guess you were there. Do
you want me to
tell what I said, what I think I said?
Weiner:
Yes.
Feynman:
I think I said that there’s a great deal of prejudice — these people,
while I was standing
there and hearing about, while the guy was announcing me, twelve people
came carrying
74
signs. I couldn’t read the signs in the position I was in but I presumed
what they were
because people began to laugh. Then it was my turn to start. And I said
that there’s a lot
of prejudice against women in business and getting jobs and so on and so
on and that’s a
ridiculous thing and so forth and so on, and that if the — so I was on
the same side as
these — I didn’t say it that way but I just put myself on the same side
as these people.
Then I said that they’d also claimed that there was something the matter
with the books
that I wrote and I think it’s a ridiculous exaggeration and that they’re
picking on the
wrong problem, and that they shouldn’t be wasting their time on me. They
should be
picketing the guys that are not giving them the jobs and so forth, but
if they came here, if
this opportunity for them to come here had given the audience again a
reminder of the
fact that there is this prejudice, then I suppose it’s all to the good.
They didn’t know
what to do then.
Weiner:
Do you know what they did? They applauded.
Feynman:
Did they applaud?
Weiner:
The demonstrators did.
Feynman:
I didn’t know that.
Weiner:
And then they left.
Feynman:
I said…I remind you again it’s all to the good.
Weiner:
You also said that you were going to write them a different reply, that
you had been —
Feynman:
75
Did I say in public that I was going to give them a different reply?
Weiner:
Yes that you didn’t take them seriously. It is a serious question but
you didn’t think that
they were serious about it because they were picking on something which
wasn’t part of
the question. You didn’t really see their point but their bigger point
you see although you
disagree with the way they were — why am I telling you what you said?
Feynman:
I don’t know what I said.
Weiner:
I was listening and you weren’t listening. You were speaking. And
anyway, it was a very
effective, a very interesting thing, because there was a great deal of
affection for you on
the part of all of the people and that this —
Feynman:
It was crazy, I think.
Weiner:
And then, of course, the after-discussion I found fascinating where I
was on the edge of
the crowd. And then you in the best of debating and discussion style
talked with people
back and forth. They presented their position, you presented yours. Your
sister spoke up
in the discussion, and it was very good. By the way, I noticed after
that — it was a very
difficult, a very trying time, and you were anxious to get out of there
— but then two
students approached you from South America. And then you turned to them
with your
full attention. This made me think that your interest in South American
education in
physics has continued. We talked about that at length last time but have
you had any
further contact with them?
Feynman:
Well, these two, people invited me to come to Mexico and give some
lectures if I
understand it correctly.
Weiner:
I heard them, yes.
76
Feynman:
And so I said yes, or something.
Weiner:
Yes, but it was your tone —
Feynman:
Wait a minute, you’re asking me what happened. And then I got a letter
from somebody
in Mexico, asking me to give lectures in Mexico. And I don’t know
whether those
students were the ones that the letter referred to, whether the letter
was something else,
and another man had asked me to go too to give lectures. So I finally
decided yes so at
the moment this particular letter came I said yes. And whether I had
said yes to whom, I
don’t know — do you understand? But anyway, I decided to give some
lectures, a series
of lectures on high energy physics in Mexico. And the guy who called me
was
Fernandez. After I said yes, he called me on the telephone to make
arrangements. He
said: “Would you give the lectures in Spanish?” I said: “I don’t know
Spanish.” He said:
“I heard some very good lectures of yours in Brazil in 1951.” I said:
“But that was
Portuguese.” He said: “Spanish is almost the same.” So I said: “No,
that’s ridiculous I
have to do it in English.” So I came home and told my wife the story and
she said: “Why
can’t you do it in Spanish?” I said: “I would have to learn Spanish.”
She said: “It
wouldn’t do you any harm.” So I got a woman to help me and I took
lessons and I went
to Berlitz and I studied and I worked and I worked and I worked and I
went down to
Mexico — it was last summer — and I gave six lectures in Spanish, and
interviews to
newspapers and so on in Spanish.
Weiner:
That’s great. Was there a good response to the lectures?
Feynman:
I can’t tell. I never know when I’m lecturing or teaching what the
response is. Yeah,
people kept coming. It was crazy. There was a strike in the university
and they couldn’t
have it at the university because people would find out that the strike
was being broken.
So they had to have it at a place in the middle of town, a medical
institute, and the
students surreptitiously snuck out of the university to go all the way
to the medical
institute about six or eight miles away to hear the lectures. So I
suppose it was a great
turn-out, considering the difficulty.
Weiner:
77
Have you kept up with the people in Brazil? There have been a lot of
changes since we
talked about it.
Feynman:
No, not since the big changes. But my friends were in Mexico. Lopez was
in Mexico also
giving lectures in the same school as I was, in fact, in the same series
of lectures so we
had many goings — over of old times. My wife and children were with me
in Mexico
and we had a very good time.
Weiner:
Look, we don’t have too much time because of your schedule.
Feynman:
We have lots of time. We have until three.
Weiner:
Well, it’s five to three. That’s what I’m getting at.
Feynman:
Oh, is it? I see. Don’t worry about it.
Weiner:
Let me harp back then to something. This is not bad for a very short
period and there’s
probably a lot more that we can get into but something before I forget I
want to get
back to — something that McMillan said that I just ask you, because I
was talking with
him many months ago about Los Alamos and experiences there. And he said:
“I suppose
you know about Feynman’s quadrilogues” I said: “Quadrilogues?” And he
started to tell
me about them. Just for personal pleasure if for nothing ease I would
really like to hear
about them.
Feynman:
Well, I don’t remember much but one day we were driving home from
somewhere. I
used to be rather sensitive to drink and I guess I was a little drunk.
And so I — I was in
the back of the car and I just started to talk as if there were two
voices and then three
and then four, so I had a complicated conversation. That’s something —
the
quadrilogues, you know. Anybody can make a monologue, but who can make a
— and I
78
don’t know what the story was that I made up. They all were laughing and
I don’t
remember it very well.
Weiner:
They remember it vividly, at least he did, but I had the impression this
is not — was this
the first time then?
Feynman:
I just think I did it once but maybe I did it more than once.
Weiner:
You haven’t preserved that. I thought that was the kind of a thing that
you do as a kind
of a continuing activity — it was just that moment of creativity then.
Feynman:
That’s right.
Weiner:
Well, I really don’t know, frankly, without taking a look and studying
some more things
and without looking at what we’ve done to identify specific gaps, what
more we should
get into for this period. Your family has grown in size since we talked?
Feynman:
Well, one thing I would like to say: I just gave a final course recently
in high energy
physics and the guys took notes and we quickly published the notes. And
at a meeting —
I was invited to go to Hungary too and I went to a meeting in Hungry. So
when I was
invited to the meeting I didn’t think that I had anything new to say but
fortunately I
thought of something new just between the time I accepted the invitation
and the trine I
went. I usually don’t like to talk at a meeting unless I have something
new. But I worked
on something new which was that we would be able to measure the charges
on the
quarks by looking at the products. And I wasn’t careful enough. I made a
mistake. And it
was found out by somebody else. So when I went to Chicago someone said —
I was
talking about this theorem and some guy in the discussion said that you
measure the
charge by measuring the charges of the products, and I didn’t know
whether he got it
from me, having heard the talk in Hungary or if he had invented it
himself. That was the
kind of embarrassment I’m always in. I don’t know whether other people
have done the
same thing. And then a Glenis Farrar, in the audience said: “No, that
isn’t true. The
79
thing doesn’t work except if you assume such-and-such.” I say: “No, no
you’re wrong.”
She says: “No, you’re wrong. So the chairman said: “I think you two
should discuss that
afterwards.” So we discussed it afterwards and I found out I was wrong
and she was
right, so that that thing is incorrect. And so I have nothing of that
high energy charges
by looking at the products.
Weiner:
It’s wrong on the basis of a mistake in the theory?
Feynman:
I didn’t derive it right. I made a mistake.
Weiner:
I see. Was this published?
Feynman:
Yes.
Weiner:
How could it be? Oh, published on the basis of the students —
Feynman:
Yes, first notes, and then as a course in a book. And also I gave the
lecture in Hungary
and it was published there. That’s the first time I published anything
that’s wrong so
therefore I am now decaying gradually into nothingness — my first flaw.
Weiner:
You’re out of blip — you know, one point doesn’t make a curve.
Feynman:
But I’m not proud of that. It didn’t work out. I have no excuse because
I knew that my
derivation wasn’t complete. I should have gone over it many times and
thought about it
again. I never — only the week before I had given a talk at Hughes and
the guy had said
to me: “Will you explain how you get that result better?” And I couldn’t
explain it, and
that should have been a clue that it wasn’t simple.
80
Weiner:
I want to ask about Hughes in a minute.
Feynman:
I give lectures every week.
Weiner:
You’re still continuing — that hasn’t changed?
Feynman:
Yeah.
Weiner:
That’s been a long time now. Do you still find it satisfying?
Feynman:
I don’t know. I do it all the time so it must be satisfying, yeah. It’s
not for the money
really.
Weiner:
The guys are good — they respond?
Feynman:
Yeah, it’s kind of fun giving these lectures. It’s a little diversion.
This year they’ve
decided what I should do is give a different lecture on a different
subject every week. See
what used to be would be a course in mathematics or a course in physics
or some
branch. They asked me to give a course in biology which I did and a
course in astronomy
which I did.
Weiner:
At what level?
Feynman:
81
Advanced, complete. Oh, it’s easy to give a course. You want to give a
course in
astronomy and you come from Caltech, it it’s easy. You read stuff, OK?
You decide you
don’t understand enough about this quasar bit so you go over to Schmitt
and you say:
“Hey, Schmitt, what’s the latest stuff on quasars?” Then you go over —
and you’re
talking about the development of the stars — and you go over and say
“Have you got
anybody around here that knows it?” “Oh yes, Clayton is writing a book.”
Clayton says
to you he is writing a book — would you do him a favor and read the
manuscript.
“Sure.” So you read the manuscript and you know more about the
development and the
history of stars than anybody else could because the latest book –-
you’re criticizing it
and discussing it with him. So it’s very easy for me to keep up with any
subject. I go to
see Goldreich and find out what the story is on the orbits and the
planets and so forth,
the pulsars and so forth. It’s very very easy. I don’t use the library.
I just use my friends.
Weiner:
What about the biology? Who do you use?
Feynman:
The same thing. Well, with the biology I had done some work myself so I
knew a great
deal, and this particular course in biology I did somewhat differently.
I could do it by
going to the biology department but instead of I took the Scientific
American — it
seems like their articles are rather complete. I have a big bunch of old
ones and I just
went through and made an index of all the biological articles and just
put them all
together and made a good course out of it. And it was complete because
that was the
latest work too. If I had had any troubles — oh yes, I did. From time to
time I had
something new; then I’d go down to the biochemistry department and ask
them for the
latest stuff so it was easy.
Weiner:
Did you do any work in biology in this last period? We talked about the
little side trip
into biology.
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
When was it that you had done that work anyway — the phage work? How do
you
pronounce it — phāge or phăge?
82
Feynman:
Phāge. I used to call it phăge. I don’t know.
Weiner:
You haven’t done any of it since then?
Feynman:
No.
Weiner:
And, the Hughes lectures — are they recorded, by the way? Has anyone
kept them?
Feynman:
No. I gave a series on lectures on statistical mechanics about nearly
ten years ago and
stalling around — they made very good notes of them — and it turned out
a very good
course, I think, now that I look at them. And I thought the notes
weren’t very good and
I kept stalling around: “I’ve got to review them before they’re
published,” and I never
did it and so on. And finally the damned things are published ten years
later — and the
publisher didn’t say that these notes were ten years old.
Weiner:
Well, the subject’s not old.
Feynman:
Yeah, but the subject advances rapidly. Anyway, this has just been
published so if you
look in the — if you find it, you’ll see it just came out this year.
Weiner:
What about tape recordings? It would be interesting to have a record of
those things.
Feynman:
Only for a historical purpose.
Weiner:
83
Well, that’s what I’m only asking for from a historical point of view.
Think of it
sometime if you can.
Feynman:
Yeah, the biology course was a good one and the astronomy course was a
good one.
Right now I’m doing a different subject every week. Each lecture is a
different subject.
Weiner:
You mean from physics to biology to —
Feynman:
No, a different subject, like in physics or in mathematics, like the
four—color problem
or the properties of liquid helium or what we know about [???] -– stuff
like that — black
clouds and so on, black holes.
Weiner:
How do you select them — on what basis -– just to give them an overview?
Feynman:
Well, they gave me a long series of topics and I just pick one or
another.
Weiner:
But these are things that they think are of special interest because of
their work?
Feynman:
No, they’re just, interested in culture.
Weiner:
I remember that great photograph of when you got the prize of pulling up
in front of the
place and thy rolled out the carpet. That’s a good photograph. There was
one other
question about Hungary I wanted to ask: what kind of a meeting was this,
and was it a
kind of ceremonial international thing or was it really a working
meeting?
Feynman:
84
No, it was a working meeting. It was not an international meeting
exactly. I mean it
wasn’t part of some international organization that I know of. It was
not like a Rochester
meeting. It was some kind of — three countries — Hungary, Austria and
somewhere
else — think that they’re starting a series of meetings. It was nothing
very —
Weiner:
But they brought people like yourself. Telegai was involved.
Feynman:
Yeah, lots of guys from outside came.
Weiner:
Was it the kind of meeting at which you could learn something useful?
Feynman:
Yeah, it was a good meeting. It was a whole week and there was plenty to
do and it was
on a very limited subject.
Weiner:
The high energy meeting at which I understand you broke your knee or
something. What
did you do?
Feynman:
I broke my kneecap.
Weiner:
How are they going from what you’ve seen over the years? Is this the
same kind of
continuing tradition of the same kinds of people coming together?
Because in the early
period — we talked about the meeting where you got up and said: “Mr.
Block has an
idea that I would like to tell you about,” and you talked at the
following meeting on that,
and these were very exciting things. Has it continued in that same
tradition?
Feynman:
No, they’ve gotten too big. For example, they have parallel sessions
which they never
had before. Parallel sessions means that more than one thing is going on
at a time, in
85
fact, usually three, sometimes four. And when I went to the meeting in
Chicago, I was
only there two days before I broke my kneecap, but I had a great deal of
trouble making
up my mind which of the parallel sessions I was going to miss. Sometimes
I’d miss them
both, but sometimes there were two things I would be interested in at
the same time.
These guys who organize this imagine that each guy is a specialist and
only interested in
one lousy corner of the field. It’s impossible really to go — so it’s
just as if you went to
half the meeting. Therefore half is not much better than nothing. You
might as well stay
home and read the reports.
Weiner:
In your case you would have been better off if you had stayed home.
Feynman:
In that particular case, yeah. So, no, that meeting is too big. A
meeting that I enjoyed
much better was a very small meeting at MAL whose real purpose was to
educate them
at MAL to a large extent. I suppose they had a meeting on partons: what
good are they?
Something like that -– a limited field for two days with plenty of time
to go over all the
features. And there were not parallel sessions. They drive me crazy. If
more than one
thing is happening at the same time and I can’t be at both of them, I
just can’t stand it.
Weiner:
Yeah, it’s awfully frustrating.
Feynman:
I’d rather not — I don’t say I have to go to both of them but I always
worry and they
often come that the same thing is happening. At the Physical Society
this used to happen
worst when I was working with liquid helium. There was helium and there
was nuclear
physics. And, of course, everybody assumed that helium and nuclear
physics were at
right angles. And I wanted to go to both of them. That was when I really
got screwed.
Weiner:
But you don’t go to Physical Society meetings very much?
Feynman:
I don’t go to the meetings much anymore. I don’t read The Physical
Review anymore.
Weiner:
86
That’s one though, isn’t it, open there? No, I don’t know what it is.
Feynman:
No, that’s not. That’s a book on polarons.
Weiner:
I see.
Feynman:
Did I ever tell of having worked on some problem with polarons?
Weiner:
In the early sixties?
Feynman:
Yeah.
Weiner:
I can tell you in a minute. Yeah, I think so.
Feynman:
Anyway, this Thornbill work is a continuation.
Weiner:
Yes, that I know, but that’s obvious in the work itself. I do think –-
I’m not quite sure.
Let’s see — “Slow electrons in a polar crystal” — that’s ‘55. “The
Pathentrical
Technique.” Then “Work on the mobility of a Polaron.”
Feynman:
Yeah, that’s it.
Weiner:
Let me tell you the truth and then we can talk about a lot of
interesting things, things
87
that I would find interesting, but since the time is getting near and I
have nothing very
specific in terms of the scientific work and since we said we’d sort of
focus on this last
period, I’m really through.
Feynman:
All right, so were finished.
Weiner:
But there may be something on your mind that we haven’t covered.
Feynman:
I don’t think so.
Weiner:
Ok. That’s surprising, isn’t it?
Feynman:
I told you nothing had happened in the last five years, seven years.
Weiner:
Do you still think so after looking at those notebooks?
Feynman:
No, that’s my business — it didn’t work. A lot of stuff didn’t work. In
the last year or so,
I mean the stuff that I did in ‘68 had a big influence and the
possibility that there are
quarks is very exciting and I’m waiting for experimental results. But as
I tried to express
I’m a little bit frustrated. I’m tired of thinking of the same things. I
need to think of
something else. Because I got stuck — see, if it would keep going it
would be all right,
but it’s hard to get any new results.
Weiner:
There’s one question I wanted to ask — it’s because the field is in that
state, it’s not only
you with your particular approach to it, but there are a lot of people
clustered around
with their own approaches, and they are all in this state —
88
Feynman:
Well, unfortunately, you see I have always been unfashionable. How this
parton thing
has been so successful that I have become fashionable. I have to find an
unfashionable
thing to do.
Weiner:
This is what I was implying before that you’re stuck in mess that the
rest of physicists
are. But if that’s the case and generally you think of the competitive
thing as of someone
saying, “Well, someone‘s going to come with the solution to this; maybe
nature, but
maybe one of us.” If you take a look at the field, where do you see it
coming from? Is it
a question that one of six guys could do it? Let’s say that we’re
talking about some
development of the theory.
Feynman:
I don’t know. There will always be young people.
Weiner:
The ones you don’t even know yet.
Feynman:
That’s usually what happens.
Weiner:
But you don’t see a particular center or a particular cluster of people
at a place that you
think might be more likely to really see through these things, other
than yourself?
Feynman:
Well, maybe Murray — his way of thinking.
Weiner:
You know I’ve never talked with him. I’ve never met him.
Feynman:
Many of the other people I don’t find — except for young people, people
you never
heard of, all of a sudden coming up. I don’t know anywhere where they’re
studying it in
89
a way that I think is sensible except Murray.
Weiner:
What we should do is that I should get together with you again after a
reasonable period
of time and see what’s happened then.
Feynman:
All right.
Weiner:
OK, great, a good point to stop.
Weiner:
Just for a brief epilogue to quote from an entry in the notebook which
sort of
summarizes some of the things you were telling about the state of the
parton ideas.
Feynman:
7/7/71 it says, “Problem 2. Your parton views have been only partly
useful in a merely
qualitative way. Others have not been able to get anywhere further with
them. The
reason is they are not part of a precise mathematical structure.
Therefore parton views
must be expressed in a precise mathematical framework. This was your
original intention
and it was never done. The most important practical problem is to relate
experimental
— experimentally? — distribution of partons, for example from deep
inelastic d-p
scattering to hadron experimental results, that is some frame in which
all the very high
energy hadron, hadron experiments can he related to the parton
distributions using the
scattering current couplings. Continued.” Do you want me to read more?
Weiner:
Yeah, I think it’s fascinating.
Feynman:
“To deal with the second part in relation of hadron collisions to parton
distributions, a
number of problems are here suggested. (Note: at one time you thought
that the
problem: given a set of partons, what distribution of many particles
does this yield was
important. I now think it is very complicated and should be avoided
because there are
indirect decays and interactions going on slowly forever. Is it rhos
which go into pis or
90
pis that are directly produced, and so on? So, although there may be a
point in trying to
relate products from different reactions, an attempt at an absolute
determination of
reaction products of highly multiple collisions should be deferred
perhaps and only two-
body reactions amplitudes or inclusive total probabilities should be
studied. Thus the
Mala way of summing is useful, though it is a series of special
problems.” I don’t know if
you want me to read special problems.
Weiner:
Let’s see how far down this goes. Well, you can’t go through the whole
thing. I just
wanted that as an idea. Is that the last or close to it?
Feynman:
No. 7/71, no. It’s got a few ‘72s in it. Here’s some stuff from ’72.
“Colored quarks and
their interactions.” How by having colored quarks interact to octet
coupling, octet in
color, you could have the whole thing -– what we find is that inside the
protons the
particles appear as a bose particle but inside -– but the quarks -– but
they can’t be bose
particles. So one way is to have them in three colors and I’m analyzing
that here. [???]
with spin. Lots of preparation for my course.
Weiner:
Yeah, what course are you giving at the moment -– this semester?
Feynman:
Nothing very interesting -– advanced quantum mechanics.
Weiner:
Oh yeah, you said you were teaching it. OK, I think this will be
terrifically important.
Maybe on the transcript of this, especially for some of the earlier
stuff that you were
talking about from ‘66, ‘67, where there’s no other record of it, you
know, it might be
good to check back on a few of these entries to see if I have it right.
Feynman:
Here’s a speech for a colloquium 1973. That looks good. These notebooks
are going to
help me with historians… They make me feel very important.
Weiner:
91
Why not? Yeah, they’re great. What about relating correspondence to
this?
Feynman:
I don’t answer many letters.
Weiner:
The only one letter we really talked about in great detail was the
letter to Fermi from
Copacabana, you know, the letters back and forth?
Feynman:
There’s also a letter I want to get — you ought to have — it’s just very
amusing. It’s to
Bethe, Hans Bethe, in which I conclude that particles, first that the
V-meson might have
a unique energy of disintegration in spite of the experimenters, in
which I went down
and I looked at all the tracks in the cloud chamber and decided they
weren’t measuring it
right. And then further on I mention what now is called associate
productions, I say
these particles must be made in pairs, which was before associate
productions.
Weiner:
When was this?
Feynman:
1953.
Weiner:
I’ll tell you about a letter to Bethe that I do have — not with me —
Feynman:
Have you got that thing still running?
Weiner:
Yeah, for this purpose. I have the date of that letter –- here — Feynman
to Bethe,
March 13, 1953, 5 pages. For my purposes I put “technical”.
Feynman:
92
That might be it.
Weiner:
Let me check it out.
Feynman:
That’s probably what you got. You got it.
Weiner:
I think you gave it to me.
Feynman:
I probably gave it to you.
Weiner:
There’s only one other really deep letter like that which is written to
Weisskopf —
January 4 - February 11, 1961, a bunch of clippings. These are
mimeographed — a total
of 15 pages.
Feynman:
That’s right, that’s on gravity.
Weiner:
What I’m going to do is to key on the transcript, to make a note that
those letters exist
so that one could cheek through on those. And what I’m going to do with
Judy here is to
—
Feynman:
— get these notebooks from me somehow.
Weiner:
Yeah, let her know about them. OK, then I’ll shut it off for sure now.
Right? This is an
epilogue on February 5th — after you’ve had a chance to look at the
transcripts of our
1966 sessions to see what we missed.
93
Feynman:
Yeah, no, ‘66 was it? Yeah, that’s the sessions. This has to do with the
old sessions. I
noticed two pieces of work that I didn’t notice there, or I remembered
two pieces of
work. One of them was after the paper on slow electrons in a polar
crystal, which
appeared around page 705, according to this index. I invented this
method to solve
complicated interaction problems which was applied in the case of
statistical mechanics
to the slow electrons in a polar crystal, but the method would apply
also to field theoretic
problems possibly. And so I tried with Koici Mano as a student, tried to
develop this
technique and show how it applied in meson theory, and that was a — the
trouble was
the meson theory itself was an inconsistent Hamiltonian that we started
with so we
didn’t make much sense of it. But it gave all kinds of effects that were
physically right for
the rather silly problem that we set it up for, and it did show promise
to be applied to
general meson theory. The reason this is important is that everyone
always says that one
of our troubles in the meson theory is that we have to use perturbation
theory and I was
trying to show that we don’t need to use perturbation theory, but
unfortunately for the
real meson problems, the real meson problem that we did work out was a
physically
unsound problem and so it gave physically unsound answers. This paper
was published
as a thesis by Koici-Mano and also appeared in a Japanese theoretical
physics journal
some time. It’s [???].
Weiner:
How long a period of time did it take?
Feynman:
For him to get his degree, he must have worked a year or so. It was hard
work. And also
I applied it to quantum electrodynamics and got some very interesting
matheratical
things in it, but I never published them. I didn’t think it was
sufficiently significant.
Weiner:
Are they in the notebook — those things that are unpublished? FEYNAN:
No, they
won’t be in the notebook. See, the notebooks are written since 1965 and
we’re talking
about something nearer 1955 or ‘56. It’ll be in some old notes
somewhere.
Weiner:
That you still have somewhere?
Feynman:
94
Uh huh.
Weiner:
Let me ask just a question — we were talking, about students the other
day — take him,
for example: do you know anything about his subsequent work? What
happened to him?
Feynman:
I think he’s in America now.
Weiner:
But he went back to Japan for a while?
Feynman:
Yes. OK, now there’s another problem I worked on somewhere along this
period and I
can’t get you the exact date without looking up a lot of things.
Professor Kac — I often
say Kac and you write “Cotts.” It isn’t Cotts.
Weiner:
It’s Kac. I corrected it on the other copy.
Feynman:
And Mark Kac came here just after he had developed the solution to the
Onsager
problem using determinants — Kac and Ward, that’s a reference. [???] at
Caltch. I
realized that the argument, I thought, could be very much simplified and
the result could
be expressed in a very simple matter in terms of paths, integrations
around a path on the
lattice that the Onsager problem is built on. We discussed it at
considerable length and I
showed it to several students, Michael Cohen and so on, but I never
published that
either. It did get into the literature — a form of it. I needed one step
that I had a little
trouble in demonstrating or I thought I had trouble in demonstrating or,
well, I didn’t
have trouble, I thought it was all right, but people said it wasn’t
demonstrated and they
criticized Mark Kac and Ward too, and it became Feynman’s conjecture. It
was finally
proved by a man named Sherman, but I didn’t recognize the conjecture in
the form that
it was. It was some complicated way of saying what I was going to say.
But there’s a very
simple way of doing path integral and I have since seen a man that it’s
all that it’s been
— I don’t have a reference here. In 1964 or ‘70 or something like that
–-
Weiner:
95
‘64 or ‘70?
Feynman:
1964 or 1970, 1970 or ‘71 — I’m not sure what year — it was worked out
by some
Russians exactly the same way, and it appears in the back of — oh hell.
Anyway, that
some work that I did — you do it by paths —
Weiner:
The idea of Feynman’s conjecture was nothing from what you published but
from other
people referred to that you had developed?
Feynman:
Yes, they must have heard from somebody that I had done this.
Weiner:
They incorporated it into some published thing. So maybe ask Kac for the
subsequent
references since he’s right there.
Feynman:
Yes, fine, that’ll do it. And that’s the only things I can think of.
Weiner:
OK, that’s not bad — it’s just those two fill-ins.
Richard Feynman interview transcript used with permission by Melanie
Jackson
Agency, LLC.
96